SA-985/SA-985M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Extent of examination methods of testing and basis for 
acceptance shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. 
S7 .2 Ultrasonic examination of casting of carbon and 
low-alloy steels shall be performed after at least one heat 
treatment above the transformation temperature range but 
need not be repeated after subsequent heat treatment. 
S7 .3 Personnel performing the examination shall be 
qualified in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S8. Charpy Impact Test 
S8.1 Charpy impact test properties shall be determined 
on each master heat from a set of three Charpy V-notch 
specimens made from a test coupon in accordance with 
Test Methods and Definitions A 370, and tested at a test 
temperature agreed upon by the manufacturer and pur­
chaser. The sampling requirements shall be agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and purchaser (see 4.4). The 
acceptance requirements shall be energy absorbed, lateral 
expansion, percent shear area or any combination thereof, 
and shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and pur­
chaser. Test specimens shall be prepared as Type A and 
tested in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions 
A370. 
S8.2 Absorbed Energy-Average energy value of three 
specimens shall not be less than specified, with not more 
than one value permitted to fall below the minimum speci­
fied and no value permitted below the minimum specified 
for a single specimen. 
S8.3 Lateral Expansion - Lateral expansion value shall 
be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S8.4 Percent Shear Area - Percent shear area shall be 
agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S9. Drop Weight Tests 
S9.1 Drop weight test properties shall be determined 
from each heat by preparing and testing either Type Pl, 
P2, or P3 specimens in accordance with Test Methods 
E 208. The crack starter weld shall be deposited on the 
surface of the specimen that was nearest to the casting 
surf ace. Each test shall consist of at least two specimens 
tested at a temperature agreed upon by the manufacturer 
and purchaser. Each specimen shall exhibit "no break" 
performance. 
S10. Examination of Weld Preparation 
S10.1 Magnetic particle or liquid penetrant examina­
tion of cavities prepared for welding shall be performed 
to verify removal of those discontinuities found unaccept­
able by the inspection method specified for the casting. The 
method of performing magnetic particle or liquid penetrant 
examination shall be in accordance with either Guide E 709 
or Test Method E 165. Unless other degrees of shrinkage 
or types of discontinuities found in the cavities are speci­
fied, Type II, Internal Shrinkage of Reference Photographs 
E 125, of Degree 2 in sections up to 2 in. [50 mm] thick, 
and of Degree 3 in sections over 2 in. [50 mm] thick shall 
be acceptable. 
S11. Prior Approval of Major Weld Repairs 
S11.1 Major weld repairs shall be subject to the prior 
approval of the purchaser. 
S12. Hardness Test 
S12.1 A hardness test shall be made in accordance with 
Test Methods and Definitions A 370. The test location and 
the hardness requirements shall be agreed upon between 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S14. Tension Test From Each Heat and Heat 
Treatment Charge 
S14.1 One tension test shall be made for each master 
heat and heat-treatment charge combination. 
S15. Quench and Temper Heat Treatment 
S15.1 The castings shall be quenched and tempered. 
Castings so treated shall be marked QT. 
S17. Tension Test From Castings 
S17 .1 In addition to the tensile test required in 
Section 6, test material shall be cut from heat treated cast­
ings. The mechanical properties and location for the test 
material shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and 
purchaser. 
S20. Weld Repair Charts 
S20.1 Weld repairs made to correct leakage on hydro­
static testing, weld repairs for which the depth of the cavity 
required for welding exceeds 20% of the actual wall thick­
ness or 1 in. [25 mm], whichever is smaller, or weld repairs 
for which the area of the cavity required for welding 
exceeds approximately 10 in.2 [65 mm 2 ] shall be docu­
mented. 
S20.2 Weld repairs requiring documentation shall be 
documented on sketches or photographs, or both. The 
sketches or photographs shall show the location and major 
dimensions of cavities prepared for weld repair. The weld 
repair documentation shall be submitted to the purchaser 
at the completion of the order. 
1444 