SA-765/SA-765M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Carbon Steel and Low-Alloy Steel Pressure-Vessel­
Component Forgings with Mandatory Toughness 
Requirements 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers heat-treated carbon steel and 
alloy steel forgings with mandatory toughness requirements. 
These forgings are intended for pressure vessels, feedwater 
heaters, and similar uses. 
1.2 These forgings include tube sheets, covers, channel 
barrels, integral forged channels, rings, nozzles, flanges, and 
similar parts. 
1.3 All grades are considered weldable under proper condi­
tions. 
1.4 The maximum thickness of forgings produced to this 
specification is limited only by the capacity of the selected 
grade to respond to any heat treatment specified and to meet the 
specified mechanical tests, including impact tests at the speci­
fied temperature. 
1.5 Material supplied to this specification shall conform to 
the requirements of Specification A788/A788M, which out­
lines additional ordering information, manufacturing 
requirements, testing and retesting methods and procedures, 
marking, certification, product analysis variations, and addi­
tional supplementary requirements. 
1.6 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A788/A788M, the 
requirements of this specification shall prevail. 
1. 7 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI 
[metric] units are to be regarded separately as the standard; 
within the text and tables, the SI units are shown in brackets. 
The values stated in each system are not exact equivalents; 
therefore, each system must be used independently of the other. 
Combining values from the two systems may result in noncon­
formance with the specification. 
1.8 Unless the order specifies the applicable "M" specifica­
tion designation, the material shall be furnished to the inch­
pound units. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A275/A275M Practice for Magnetic Particle Examination of 
Steel Forgings 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A388/A388M Practice for Ultrasonic Examination of Steel 
Forgings 
A788/A788M Specification for Steel Forgings, General Re­
quirements 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
E165 Practice for Liquid Penetrant Examination for General 
Industry 
2.2 ASME Standards: 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 In addition to the ordering information requirements of 
Specification A788/A788M, a detailed sketch or written de­
scription of the forging and the method of selecting the test 
location (see 6.2) should be supplied to the producer, when 
appropriate areas of significant in-service loading of the 
forging need to be designated. 
3.2 The required impact test temperature should be supplied 
if different than the temperature listed in Table 3, otherwise the 
impact test shall be conducted at the temperature listed in Table 
3 for the chosen Grade. 
3.3 If a hubbed tube sheet is to be supplied for ASME Boiler 
and Pressure Code Application Supplementary Requirement 
S12 of Specification A788/A788M shall be specified. 
1240 