SA-358/SA-358M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
with their centers parallel to the material surface and not over 
1 in. [25 mm] apart. The centers of the specimens adjacent to 
material surfaces shall not exceed 5/s in. [16 mm] from the 
surface. 
14.4 The test specimens shall not be cut from the pipe or test 
plate until after final heat treatment. 
15. Mechanical Tests Required 
15.1 For the purposes of the tension and bend test 
requirements, the term "lot" shall mean all pipe of the same 
grade, permitted to include more than one heat of steel, within 
a 3/16-in [4.7-mm] range of thickness and welded to the same 
weld procedure, and when heat treated, done so to the same 
heat-treating procedure and in the same furnace. The maximum 
lot size shall be 200 linear ft [60 m] of pipe. 
15.1.1 Transverse Tension Test-One test shall be made to 
represent each lot of finished pipe. 
15.1.2 Transverse Guided-Bend Weld Test-One test (two 
specimens) shall be made to represent each lot of finished pipe. 
15.2 Hydrostatic Test-Each length of pipe shall be sub­
jected to a hydrostatic test in accordance with Specification 
A999/A999M, unless specifically exempted under the provi­
sion of 15.3. Pressure shall be held for a sufficient time to 
permit the inspector to examine the entire length of the welded 
seam. 
15.3 The purchaser, with the agreement of the manufacturer, 
is permitted to complete the hydrostatic test requirement with 
the system pressure test, performed at a pressure either lower 
or higher than the specification test pressure, but in no case 
shall the test pressure be lower than the system design pressure. 
Each length of pipe furnished without the completed manufac­
turer's hydrostatic test shall include with the mandatory 
marking the letters "NH." 
16. Radiographic Examination 
16.1 For Classes 1, 3, and 4 pipe, all welded joints shall be 
completely examined by radiography. 
16.2 For Class 5 pipe, the welded joints shall be spot 
radiographed to the extent of not less than 12 in. [300 mm] of 
radiograph per 50 ft [15 m] of weld. 
16.3 For Classes 1, 3, and 4 pipe, radiographic examination 
shall be in accordance with the requirements of the ASME 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, latest edition, 
Paragraph UW-51. 
16.4 For Class 5 pipe, radiographic examination shall be in 
accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, latest edition, 
Paragraph UW-52. 
16.5 Radiographic examination is permitted to be per­
formed prior to heat treatment. 
17. Lengths 
17 .1 Circumferentially welded joints of the same quality as 
the longitudinal joints shall be permitted by agreement between 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
18. Product Marking 
18.1 In addition to the marking prescribed in Specification 
A999/A999M, the markings on each length of pipe shall 
include the plate material designations as shown in Table 1, the 
marking requirements of 6.3 and 15.3, and Class 1, 2, 3, or 4, 
as appropriate (see 1.3). 
18.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 18.1, 
bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary identification 
method. Bar coding should be consistent with the Automotive 
Industry Action Group (AIAG) standard prepared by the 
Primary Metals Subcommittee of the AIAG Bar Code Project 
Team. 
19. Keywords 
19 .1 arc welded steel pipe; austenitic stainless steel; 
chromium-nickel steel; fusion welded steel pipe; high tempera­
ture application; steel pipe; temperature service applications; 
high; welded steel pipe 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser is permitted to specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is 
provided in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and 
manufacturer, it is permitted to modify the retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary 
requirements. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1.1 Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. 
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo­
sition requirements shall be rejected. 
S2. Tension and Bend Tests 
S2.1 Tension tests (Section 12) and bend tests (Section 13) 
shall be made on specimens to represent each length of pipe. 
Failure of any test specimen to meet the requirements shall be 
cause for the rejection of the pipe length represented. 
572 
S3. Penetrant Oil and Powder Examination 
S3.1 All welded joints shall be subjected to examination by 
a penetrant oil and powder method. The details of the method 
and the disposition of flaws detected shall be a matter for 
agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
S4. Ferrite Control in Weld Deposits 
S4.1 The ferrite content of the deposited weld metal in any 
length of pipe shall be determined. The procedural details 
pertaining to this subject (that is, welding; plate and weld 