SA-20/SA-20M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
5.5.1 Plates produced from coil shall not contain splice 
welds, unless approved by the purchaser. 
6. Heat Treatment 
6.1 If plates are required to be heat treated, the heat 
treatment shall be performed by the manufacturer, the 
processor, or the fabricator, unless otherwise specified in the 
applicable product specification. 
6.2 If the heat treatment required by the applicable product 
specification is to be performed by the purchaser or the 
purchaser's agent, and the plates are to be supplied by the 
manufacturer or processor in a condition other than that 
required by the applicable product specification, the order shall 
so state. 
6.2.1 If plates are ordered without the heat treatment re­
quired by the applicable product specification, heat treatment 
of the plates to confonn to the requirements of the applicable 
product specification shall be the responsibility of the pur­
chaser. 
6.3 If heat treatment is to be performed, the plates shall be 
heat treated as specified in the applicable product specification. 
The purchaser may specify the heat treatment to be used, 
provided it is not in conflict with the requirements of the 
applicable product specification. 
6.4 If normalizing is to be performed by the fabricator, the 
plates shall be either normalized or heated uniformly for hot 
forming, provided that the temperature to which the plates are 
heated for hot forming does not significantly exceed the 
normalizing temperature, 
6.5 If no heat treatment is required, the manufacturer or 
processor shall have the option of heat treating the plates by 
normalizing, stress relieving, or normalizing and then stress 
relieving to meet the requirements of the applicable product 
specification. 
6.6 If approved by the purchaser, cooling rates faster than 
those obtained by cooling in air are permissible to achieve 
specified mechanical properties, provided that the plates are 
subsequently tempered in the temperature range from 1100 to 
1300°F [595 to 705°C]. 
7. Chemical Composition 
7.1 Heat Analysis: 
7.1.1 Sampling for chemical analysis and methods of analy­
sis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. 
7.1.2 For each heat, the heat analysis shall include determi­
nation of the content of carbon, manganese, phosphorus, sulfur, 
silicon, nickel, chromium, molybdenum, copper, vanadium, 
columbium (niobium); any other element that is specified or 
restricted by the applicable product specification for the 
applicable grade, class, and type; aluminum, if the aluminum 
content is to be used in place of austenitic grain size testing of 
the heat (see 8.3.2.1); and any other austenitic grain refining 
element for which limits are specified in the purchase order 
(see 8.3.2). 
7 .1.3 Heat analyses shall conform to the heat analysis 
requirements of the applicable product specification for the 
72 
applicable grade, class, and type. In addition, for elements that 
are listed in Table 1 but are not specified or restricted in the 
applicable product specification for the applicable grade, class, 
and type, heat analyses shall conform to the applicable heat 
analysis limits given in Table 1. 
7.2 Product Analysis: 
7.2.1 Sampling for chemical analysis and methods of analy­
sis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. 
7 .2.2 For each plate-as-rolled, the purchaser shall have the 
option of chemically analyzing a broken tension test specimen 
or a sample taken from the same relative location as that from 
which the tension test specimen was obtained. 
7.2.3 For elements that are specified or restricted by the 
applicable product specification for the applicable grade, class, 
and type, product analyses shall conform to the product 
analysis requirements of the applicable product specification 
for the applicable grade, class, and type. 
7.2.4 For elements that are listed in Table 1 but are not 
specified or restricted by the applicable product specification 
TABLE 1 Limits on Elements (see 7.1.3 and 7.2.4) 
Copper, max %A Heat analysis 0.40 
Product analysis 0.43 
Nickel, max %A Heat analysis 0.40 
Product analysis 0.43 
Chromium, max %A,B Heat analysis 0.30 
Product analysis 0.34 
Molybdenum, max %A.a Heat analysis 0.12 
Product analysis 0.13 
Vanadium, max %c Heat analysis 0.03 
Product analysis 0.04 
Columbium (Niobium), 0 max %E Heat analysis 0.02 
Product analysis 0.03 
Titanium, max %F Heat analysis 0,03 
Product analysis 0.04 
Boron, max% Heat analysis 0,0010 
Product analysis 0.0015 
A In addition for each heat, based upon the heat analysis, the sum of copper, 
nickel, chromium, and molybdenum shall not exceed 1.00 %, unless one or more 
of those elements are specified or restricted by the applicable product specification 
for the applicable grade, class, and type. 
8 In addition for each heat, based upon the heat analysis, the sum of chromium 
and molybdenum shall not exceed 0.32 %, unless one or both of those elements 
are specified or restricted by the applicable product specification for the applicable 
grade, class, and type. 
c By agreement between the purchaser and the supplier, the heat analysis limit for 
vanadium is permitted to be increased to a value not higher than 0.10 %, and the 
product analysis limit for vanadium is permitted to be increased to a value not 
higher than 0.11 %. 
° Columbium and niobium are interchangeable names for the same element and 
both names are acceptable for use in A01 specifications. 
E By agreement between the purchaser and the supplier, the heat analysis limit for 
columbium (niobium) is permitted to be increased to a value not higher that 
0.05 %, and the product analysis limit for columbium (niobium) is permitted to be 
increased to a value not higher than 0.06 %. 
F By agreement between the purchaser and the supplier, the heat analysis limit for 
titanium is permitted to be increased to a value not higher than 0.04 %, and the 
product analysis limit for titanium is permitted to be increased to a value not higher 
than 0.05 %. 