SA-1016/SA-1016M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
15. Retests 
15.1 If the results of the mechanical tests of any group or lot 
do not conform to the requirements specified in the individual 
specification, retests may be made on additional tubes of 
double the original number from the same group or lot, each of 
which shall conform to the requirements specified. 
16. Reheat Treatment 
16.1 If the individual tubes or the tubes selected to represent 
any group or lot fail to conform to the test requirements, the 
individual tubes or the group or lot represented may be reheat 
treated and resubmitted for test. Not more than two reheat 
treatments shall be permitted. 
17. Test Specimens 
17 .1 Test specimens shall be taken from the ends of finished 
tubes prior to upsetting, swaging, expanding, or other fanning 
operations, or being cut to length. They shall be smooth on the 
ends and free of bmTs and flaws. 
17 .2 If any test specimen shows flaws or defective 
machining, it may be discarded and another specimen substi­
tuted. 
18. Method of Mechanical Testing 
18. l The specimens and mechanical tests required shall be 
made in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370 
or Test Methods A1058. 
18.1.1 Unless otherwise specified in the ordering 
requirements, Test Methods AI058 shall apply when the metric 
version of the product specification is specified. 
18.2 Specimens shall be tested at room temperature. 
18.3 Small or subsize specimens as described in Test 
Methods and Definitions A370 or Test Methods A1058 may be 
used only when there is insufficient material to prepare one of 
the standard specimens. When using small or subsize 
specimens, the largest one possible shall be used. 
19. Flattening Test 
19.1 A section of tube not less than 2½ in. [60 mm] in 
length for seamless tubes and not less than 4 in. [IO0 mm] in 
length for welded tubes and for heavily cold-worked tubes 
shall be flattened cold between parallel plates in two steps. For 
welded tubes, the weld shall be placed 90° from the direction 
of the applied force (at a point of maximum bending). During 
the first step, which is a test for ductility, no cracks or breaks, 
except as provided for in 19.4, on the inside, outside, or end 
smfaces shall occur in seamless tubes, or on the inside or 
outside surfaces of welded tubes and heavily cold-worked 
tubes, until the distance between the plates is less than the 
value of H calculated by the following equation: 
(1 +e)t 
H=e+t!D (2) 
where: 
H = distance between flattening plates, in. [mm], 
= specified wall thickness of the tube, in. [mm], 
D = specified outside diameter of the tube, in. [mm], and 
e = deformation per unit length ( constant for a given grade 
of steel: 0.07 for medium-carbon steel (maximum 
specified carbon 0.19 % or greater), 0.08 for ferritic 
alloy steel, 0.09 for austenitic steel, 0.09 for duplex 
(ferritic/austenitic) stainless steels, and 0.09 for low­
carbon steel (maximum specified carbon 0.18 % or 
less)). 
During the second step, which is a test for soundness, the 
flattening shall be continued until the specimen breaks or the 
opposite walls of the specimen meet. Evidence of laminated or 
unsound material, or of incomplete weld that is revealed dming 
the entire flattening test shall be cause for rejection. 
19.2 Surface imperfections in the test specimens before 
flattening, but revealed during the first step of the flattening 
test, shall be judged in accordance with the finish requirements. 
19.3 Superficial ruptures resulting from surface imperfec­
tions shall not be cause for rejection. 
19.4 When low D-to-t ratio tubular products are tested, 
because the strain imposed due to geometry is unreasonably 
high on the inside surface at the six and twelve o'clock 
locations, cracks at these locations shall not be cause for 
rejection if the D-to-t ratio is less than 10. 
20. Reverse Flattening Test 
20.1 A section 4 in. [100 mm] in length of finished welded 
tubing in sizes down to and including ½ in. [12.7 mm] in 
outside diameter shall be split longitudinally 90° on each side 
of the weld and the sample opened and flattened with the weld 
at the point of maximum bend. There shall be no evidence of 
cracks or lack of penetration or overlaps resulting from flash 
removal in the weld. 
21. Reverse Bend Test 
21.1 A section 4 in. [100 mm] minimum in length shall be 
split longitudinally 90° on each side of the weld. The sanlple 
shall then be opened and bent around a mandrel with a 
maximum thickness of four times the wall thickness, with the 
mandrel parallel to the weld and against the original outside 
surface of the tube. The weld shall be at the point of maximum 
bend. There shall be no evidence of cracks or of overlaps 
resulting from the reduction in thickness of the weld area by 
cold working. When the geometry or size of the tubing make it 
difficult to test the sample as a single piece, the sample may be 
sectioned into smaller pieces provided a minimum of 4 in. of 
weld is subjected to reverse bending. 
21.2 The reverse bend test is not applicable when the wall is 
10 % or more of the specified outside diameter, or the wall 
thickness is 0.134 in. [3.4 mm] or greater, or the outside 
diameter is less than 0.375 in. [9.5 mm]. Under these 
conditions, the reverse flattening test shall apply. 
22. Flaring Test 
22.1 A section of tube approximately 4 in. [100 mm] in 
length shall stand being flared with a tool having a 60° included 
angle until the tube at the mouth of the flare has been expanded 
1530 