SA-354 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Quenched and Tempered Alloy Steel Bolts, Studs, and Other 
Externally Threaded Fasteners 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers the chemical and mechanical 
requirements of quenched and tempered alloy steel bolts, studs, 
and other externally threaded fasteners 4 in. and under in 
diameter for application at normal atmospheric temperatures, 
where high strength is required and for limited application at 
elevated temperature (Note 1). Any alloy steel capable of 
meeting the minimum mechanical and chemical properties set 
forth in this specification may be used. 
NoTE 1-For bolts, studs, or other externally threaded fasteners, to be 
used at elevated temperatures, refer to Specification Al93/Al93M. 
1.2 Two levels of bolting strength are covered, designated 
Grades BC and BD. Selection will depend upon design and the 
stresses and service for which the product is to be used. 
NoTE 2-Quenched and tempered alloy steel bolts for structural steel 
joints up through 1 ½ in. in diameter are covered in Specification A490. 
Alloy steel bolts, studs, and other externally threaded fasteners (that is, 
heavy hex-structural bolts over 1 ½ in., hex bolts, anchor bolts, and 
countersunk bolts) exhibiting similar mechanical properties to bolts 
conforming to Specification A490 shall be covered by Grade BD of this 
specification. 
When bolts of Grade BD of this specification are considered for 
pretentioned applications in excess of 50 % of the bolt tensile strength, the 
additional requirements of head size, maximum tensile strength, nut size 
and strength, washer hardness, tests, and inspections contained in Speci­
fication A490 should be carefully considered. 
1.3 Nuts are covered in Specification A563. Unless other­
wise specified, the grade and style of nut for each grade of 
fastener shall be as follows: 
558 
Grade of Fastener and Surface Finish 
BC, plain (or with a coating of insufficient thick­
ness to require over-tapped nuts) 
BC, zinc-coated (or with a coating thickness re­
quiring over-tapped nuts) 
BD, all finishes 
Nut Grade and 
StyleA 
C, heavy hex 
DH, heavy hex 
DH, heavy hex 
A Nuts of other grades and styles having specified proof load stresses (Specifica­
tion A563, Table 3) greater than the specified grade and style of nut are suitable. 
1.4 The values stated in inch-pound units are to be regarded 
as the standard. 
1.5 Terms used in this specification are defined in Termi­
nology Fl 789 unless otherwise defined herein. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A193/A193M Specification for Alloy-Steel and Stainless 
Steel Bolting for High Temperature or High Pressure 
Service and Other Special Purpose Applications 
A490 Specification for Structural Bolts, Alloy Steel, Heat 
Treated, 150 ksi Minimum Tensile Strength 
A563 Specification for Carbon and Alloy Steel Nuts 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
B695 Specification for Coatings of Zinc Mechanically De-
posited on Iron and Steel 
D3951 Practice for Commercial Packaging 
F436 Specification for Hardened Steel Washers 
F606 Test Methods for Determining the Mechanical Proper­
ties of Externally and Internally Threaded Fasteners, 
Washers, Direct Tension Indicators, and Rivets 
F788/F788M Specification for Surface Discontinuities of 
Bolts, Screws, and Studs, Inch and Metric Series 