ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-530 /SA-530M 
of the specification have not been completed. The purchaser 
must certify that all requirements of the specification have been 
completed before removal of the letter (that is, X, Y, or Z). 
23.5 When certification is required for material that has not 
been hydrostatically tested, the certificate of test shall state 
"Not hydrostatically tested", and the letters "NH" shall be 
appended to the product specification number, material grade 
and class shown on the certificate. 
23.6 A material test report, certificate of compliance, or 
similar document printed from or used in electronic form from 
an electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be 
regarded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and supplier. Notwithstanding the absence 
of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI transmis­
sion is responsible for the content of the material test report. 
24. Inspection 
24.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities 
to satisfy him that the material is being furnished in accordance 
with this specification. All required tests and inspection shall 
be made at the place of manufacture prior to shipment, unless 
otherwise specified, and shall be conducted so as not to 
interfere unnecessarily with operation of the works. 
26.3 For anstenitic steel pipe, the marking paint or ink shall 
not contain any harmful metal, or metal salts, such as zinc, 
lead, or copper, which cause corrosive attack on heating. 
26.4 Pipes which have been weld repaired in accordance 
with 17.1 shall be marked WR. 
26.5 When it is specified that certain requirements of a 
specification adopted by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Committee are to be completed by the purchaser upon receipt 
of the material, the manufacturer shall indicate that all require­
ments of the specification have not been completed by a letter 
such as X, Y, or Z, immediately following the specification 
number. This letter may be removed after completion of all 
requirements in accordance with the specification. An expla­
nation of specification requirements to be completed is pro­
vided in 25.1. 
26.6 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 26.1, 
26.2, 26.3, 26.4 and 26.5, bar coding is acceptable as a 
supplemental identification method. The purchaser may 
specify in the order a specific bar coding system to be used. 
27. Packaging, Marking, and Loading 
27.1 When specified on the purchase order, packaging, 
marking, and loading for shipment shall be in accordance with 
the procedures of Practices A 700. 
28. Government Procurement 
28.1 When specified in the contract or order, the following 
requirements shall be considered in the inquiry contract or 
order for agencies of the U.S. Government where scale free 
pipe is required. These requirements shall take precedence if 
25. Rejection there is a conflict between these requirements and the product 
25.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer specification. 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 28.1.1 Pipe shall be ordered to nominal pipe size (NPS) and 
requirements of the specification based on the inspection and schedule. Nominal pipe shall be as specified in ASME B36.10. 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 28.1.2 Responsibility for Inspection-Unless otherwise 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of specified in the contract or purchase order, the manufacturer is 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the responsible for the performance of all inspection and test 
manufacturer and the purchaser. requirements specified. The absence of any inspection require-
~~~~---_-2---_-5---_-.2~P---_-ip-e-t--=-h-a-t--=-fa---:-il::-s--:i'-n-a-n-y-o--=f---:th---:e-f-=--o-rm---:-ir- 1 g~op-e-r-a---cti-on-s~or-1~· 11 -t~h-e~~men1s-in-the-spgG-ification-shalLnotrelie_ye the contractor of the 
process of installation and is found to be defective shall be set responsibility for ensming that all products or supplies submit-
aside and the manufacturer shall be notified for mutual ted to the Government for acceptance comply with all require-
evaluation of the suitability of the pipe. Disposition of such ments of the contract. Sampling inspection, as part of the 
pipe shall be a matter for agreement. manufacturing operations, is an acceptable practice to ascertain 
26. Product Marking 
26.1 Each length of pipe shall be legibly marked with the 
manufacturer's name or brand, the specification number (year 
of issue not required) and grade. Marking shall begin approxi­
mately 12 in. [300 mm] from the end of each length of pipe. 
For pipe less than NPS 2 [DN 50] and pipe under 3 ft [1 m] in 
length, the required infmmation may be marked on a tag 
securely attached to the bundle or box in which the pipes are 
shipped. 
26.2 When pipe marked as specified is rejected, the ASTM 
designation shall be cancelled. 
899 
conformance to requirements, however, this does not authorize 
submission of known defective material, either indicated or 
actual, nor does it commit the Government to accept the 
material. Except as otherwise specified in the contract or 
purchase order, the manufacturer may use his own or any other 
suitable facilities for the performance of the inspection and test 
requirements unless disapproved by the purchaser at the time 
the order is placed. The purchaser shall have the right to 
perform any of the inspections and tests set forth when such 
inspections and tests are deemed necessary to ensure that the 
material conforms to the prescribed requirements. 
28.1.3 Sampling for Flattening and Flaring Test and for 
Visual and Dimensional Examination-Minimum sampling for 