SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/A568M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
11.1.2 The retest specimen shall be taken either adjacent to 
the first failed specimen, or selected at random from the 
material to be certified to the specification. 
11.1.3 If the results of a retest satisfy the specified tension 
test requirements and all other requirements of the applicable 
specification are satisfied, the material shall be accepted. 
11.2 Disposition of Non-Conforming Material: 
11.2.1 In those cases where the lot is found to be non­
conforming, and resampling of non-conforming material is not 
prohibited by the specification, resampling is permitted under 
the following circumstances and using the following practices: 
11.2.1.1 If the results of an original tension test or retest 
specimen fail to satisfy the specification requirements, and the 
failed test results are not related to the conditions described in 
11.1, the lot shall be quarantined and resampled for certifica­
tion of the non-conforming material to the specification re­
quirements. 
11.2.1.2 Resampling for certification of the non-conforming 
material shall include the discarding of out-of-specification 
material and the resampling of the lot. The resampling shall be 
appropriate to the specific out-of-specification condition and 
the processing history of the lot. 
11.2.1.3 A maximum of two resampling efforts shall be 
permitted. If after conducting two resampling efforts, the 
material does not satisfy the specification requirements, the lot 
shall be rejected. 
12. Inspection 
12.1 When purchaser's order stipulates that inspection and 
tests (except product analyses) for acceptance on the steel be 
made prior to shipment from the mill, the manufacturer shall 
afford the purchaser's inspector all reasonable facilities to 
satisfy him that the steel is being produced and furnished in 
accordance with the specification. Mill inspection by the 
purchaser shall not interfere unnecessarily with the manufac­
tnrer' s operation. 
14.2 The manufacturer or processor shall issue a test report 
or optional certificate of compliance, or both, when required by 
the purchase order or the specification. 
14.3 The test report shall show the heat analysis and the 
results of all tests required by the purchase order and seller and 
by the specification. 
14.4 The certificate of compliance shall include a statement 
that the product was manufactured and tested in accordance 
with the requirements of the specification and that the test 
results conform to the requirements of the specification. 
Norn 4-The heat analysis, results of all tests, and the certificate of 
compliance may be reported separately on in a combined report. 
14.5 Steel processors shall pass transfer data supplied by the 
steel manufacturer provided the processing has not altered the 
attributes represented. In cases where the steel is retested the 
processor is responsible for the accuracy of the data and shall 
maintain traceability back to its source. Retesting for heat 
analysis shall be done in accordance with the specification Test 
Methods A751. The report shall clearly identify the physical 
product it represents. 
14.6 Test rep01is and certificates of compliance shall pro­
vide information necessary to identify the product represented; 
for example the manufacturer's name or brand, the processor's 
name or brand or the seller's name or brand, ASTM specifi­
cation number and year date, product designation, type or 
class, as applicable, and all other information necessary to 
completely identify the material. 
14.7 A signature is not required on test reports or certifica­
tions. However, the document shall clearly identify the orga­
nization submitting the document. Notwithstanding the ab­
sence of a signature, the organization submitting the document 
is responsible for the content of the document. 
14.8 When required, copies of the original material manu­
facturer's test report shall be included with any subsequent test 
report. 
14.9 A Material Test Report, Certificate of Inspection, or 
13. Rejection and Rehearing similar document printed from or used in electronic form from 
13.l Unless otherwise specified, any rejection shall b~ electroni~ata interchange_ (EDI) transmission s~all be 
rep01ied to the manufacturer within a reasonable time after regardedasliavmg the same vahc:!ity as a counterpart prmte~ 
recei t of material by the purchaser. the certifier's facility. The c?ntent of the ~DI transmitted 
p document must meet the reqmrements of the mvoked ASTM 
13.2 Material that is reported to be defective subsequent to standard(s) and confonn to any existing EDI agreement be-
the acceptance at the purchaser's works shall be set aside, tween the purchaser and the supplier. Notwithstanding the 
adequately protected, and correctly identified. The manufac- absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
turer shall be notified as soon as possible so that an investiga- transmission is responsible for the content of the report. 
tion may be initiated. 14.9.1 The content of the EDI document shall meet all the 
13.3 Samples that are representative of the rejected material requirements of 14.3 through 14.6. 
shall be made available to the manufacturer. In the event that 
the manufacturer is dissatisfied with the rejection, he may 
request a rehearing. 
14. Test Reports and Certification 
14.1 When test repo1is are required by the purchase order or 
the material specification, the supplier shall report the results of 
all test required by the material specification and the order. 
988 
NoTE 5-The industry definition as invoked here is: EDI is the 
computer to computer exchange of business information in an agreed upon 
standard format such as ANSI ASC Xl2. 
15. Product Marking 
15.1 As a minimum requirement, the material shall be 
identified by having the manufacturer's name, ASTM 
designation, weight, purchaser's order number, and material 