ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-703/SA-703M 
(1) Exceeds approximately 10 in. 2 [65 cm 2 ] for castings weighing up 
to 1 0 000 lb [4.5 tonnes]; 
(2) Exceeds 20 in. 2 [130 cm 2 ] for castings weighing from 10 000 lb 
to 30 000 lb [4.5 to 13.5 tonnes]; 
(3) Exceeds approximately 30 in.2 [200 cm 2 ] for pieces weighing 
more than 30 000 lb [13.5 tonnes]. 
shall be documented. 
S20.2 Weld repairs requiring documentation shall be docu­
mented on sketches or photographs, or both. The sketches or 
photographs shall show the location and major dimensions of 
cavities prepared for weld repair. The weld repair documenta­
tion shall be submitted to the purchaser at the completion of the 
order. 
S21. Heat Treatment Furnace Record 
S21.1 A heat treatment chart showing time and temperature 
shall be prepared and be available for inspection by the 
purchaser. 
S22. Heat Treatment 
S22.1 Test specimens shall be heat treated together with the 
castings they represent. Heat-treated specimens shall be tested 
and shall meet the tensile and impact properties specified. 
S22.2 The remaining test specimens from Supplementary 
Requirement S22.1 representing the casting shall be treated 
thermally after the final (foundry) heat treatment to simulate 
heat treatments below the critical temperature that the casting 
may receive during fabrication, and then tested for mechanical 
properties. Time, temperature, and cooling rate shall be as 
stated in the order. In the case of post-weld heat treatment, the 
total time at temperature or temperatures for the test material 
shall be at least 80 % of the total time at temperature or 
temperatures during actual post-weld heat treatment of the 
fabrication of which the casting or castings are a part. The total 
time at temperature or temperatures for the test material may be 
performed in a single cycle. When this supplementary require­
ment is specified, the welding qualification test metal must be 
processed in the same manner. 
S23. Macroetch Test 
S23.l Apply Supplementary Requirement SI for the spec­
trographic determination and reporting of the total residual 
aluminum content of all heats of ferritic and martensitic steels 
subjected to this macroetch test. 
S23.2 When the heat analysis indicates a total residual 
aluminum content in excess of 0.08 %, the manufacturer shall 
etch a cross section of the casting with the heaviest section for 
which this supplementary requirement is invoked, or a coupon 
attached to that heaviest section or an area directly under a riser 
(Note S23.l). Cross sections, from a separately cast test block 
from the same heat and of a thickness representative of the 
heaviest section of castings purchased under this supplemen­
tary requirement, may also be used for macroetch testing. The 
etching shall be performed on the selected section after its heat 
treatment, that is, after heat treatment as defined in the product 
specification. 
NoTE S23.1-High-strength martensitic castings, in particular, may be 
damaged beyond use if the etch is applied directly to the casting. 
S23.3 The preparation of the surface and the macroetching 
procedure with solution No. 1 (1:1 HCl) of Table 5 in Practice 
E340 shall be followed. The resulting etched surface shall be 
compared and rated with the reference photographs in Fig. 
S23.1 depicting ten levels of severity of intergranular network 
structures indicative of the presence of aluminum nitride, or 
other constituents prone toward precipitating at grain bound­
aries during solidification and subsequent cooling. Table S23.1 
relates the severity levels shown in these photographs with 
specific delineation widths and percent of boundary outlining 
in the etched structures. 
S23.4 Castings represented by etched structures exhibiting a 
network rating in excess of Severity Level 4 shall be consid­
ered unacceptable until further evaluations are completed. The 
acceptability of individual castings may be determined by 
etching sections of each casting to ascertain the network 
severity ,level. Disposition of unacceptable castings shall be a 
matter of agreement between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
Those castings exhibiting etched severity levels greater than 
four may be further evaluated by any of the following 
agreed-upon methods: 
S23.4.1 Fracture testing to determine the amount of "rock 
candy" structure. 
S23.4.2 Mechanical testing (bend, tensile, and so forth) to 
determine the ductility characteristics. 
S23.4.3 Weld testing to determine crack susceptibility in the 
heat-affected zone of a circular groove welded with cellulose 
coated electrodes. 
S23.5 Alternatively, by agreement, it is permissible to 
subject castings from an unacceptable heat to a high­
temperature homogenizing cycle prior to the normal produc­
tion heat treatment and subsequently macroetch test each 
casting. 
S23.6 Heavy section castings (3) whose configurations are 
amenable to the attachment of test coupons representative of 
the section thickness involved and from which standard 0.505-
in. [12.827-mrn] diameter tension specimens may be machined 
are exempt from this macroetch test if the results of the tension 
test on the coupon after heat treatment of the casting meet the 
minimum requirements specified for the grade of steel in­
volved. 
NoTE S23.2-For purposes of this supplementary requirement, a heavy 
section casting is defined as one having a wall thickness of 1 ½ in. 
[37 mm] or greater in combination with a casting weight of at least 
1000 lb [455 kg]. 
S24. Specified Ferrite Content Range 
S24.1 The chemical composition of the heat shall be con­
trolled such that the ferrite content, as determined by the 
chemical composition procedure of Practice A800/ A800M, 
shall be in accordance with the specified ferrite content range. 
S24.2 The specified ferrite content range shall be as agreed 
upon between the manufacturer and the purchaser. The mini­
mum specified ferrite content range shall be 10 %, with the 
minimum ferrite content being no lower than the percent 
necessary to achieve the minimum mechanical properties 
required for the alloy. 
1159 