ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-556/SA-556M (ASTM A556/A556M) 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirement or requirements may become a part of the specification 
when specified in the inquiry or invitation to bid, and purchase order or contract. These requirements 
shall not be considered, unless specified in the order, in which even the necessary tests shall be made 
by the manufacturer prior to the bending or shipment of the tubing. 
Sl. Nondestructive Ultrasonic Test-Round Tubing (Com­
mercial Grade) 
S 1. 1 The manufactuer shall test the tubing by an ultrasonic 
nondestructive test for detection of harmful faults and sound­
ness. 
Sl.1.1 Ultrasonic testing shall be performed using pulse­
echo shear wave techniques to locate longitudinal or circum­
ferential defects, or both. 
Sl.1.2 Tubes being tested shall be reasonably straight for 
proper rotation. The outside and inside diameter surfaces of the 
tubes shall be free of dirt, grit, grease, oil, loose scale, or other 
materials which tend to attenuate, scatter, or reflect ultrasonic 
signals. 
S 1.1.3 Tubing shall be inspected by feeding spirally past a 
suitable transducer with rotation of material to be toward the 
transducer. 
Sl.1.4 Suitable ultrasonic instrumentation shall be used to 
Sl.1.6.4 The recording equipment, if agreed upon, shall be 
adjusted to clearly indicate the reference notch or notches and 
also whether or not any reflected signals actuate the alarm 
system. 
Sl.1.7 A reference standard of an appropriate length (suffi­
cient to allow in-line feeding) shall be prepared from a 
randomly selected tube of the same size, grade, and physical 
condition as the material to be tested. 
S 1.1.8 The reference standard shall contain machined 
notches as follows: Notch to be 10 % of wall thickness in depth 
but not less than 0.004 in. [0.10 mm]. Tolerance on depth 
+0.0000 in. or -0.001 in. [0.03 mm]. 
S 1.1.8.1 Notch Locations and Orientation-Notches shall 
be located on outside or inside diameter, or both, and shall be 
oriented to lie in a longitudinal direction for radial inspection 
or circumferentially, or both, for transverse inspection. The 
notch or notches shall be located in the reference tube in such 
a manner that no physical or acoustical interference exists 
between notches or end of reference tube. These various 
clearly distinguish the artificial defects (hereafter called refer- locations and orientations will be classified as follows: 
ence notches) described later. Automatic electronic monitoring Type A-Longitudinal outside diameter for radial inspection, 
of the reflected ultrasonic signals shall be provided in such Type B-Longitudinal inside diameter for radial inspection, 
manner that any naturally occurring defects which present an Type C-Circumferential outside diameter for transverse 
ultrasonic reflection equal to or greater than the reference inspection, and 
standard(s) shall trigger audible and visible alarms. Type D-Circumferential inside diameter for transverse in-
Sl.1.5 Instrument calibration as described herein shall be spection. 
accomplished with the reference standard being rotated and fed Sl.1.8.2 Standard Nomenclature-The size, location, and 
orientation of the reference notches, which become a part of a past th.e transducer at the same approximate rate at which the particular order covered under this specification, shall be tubing under test will be tested. specified. 
Sl.1.6 The following factors will be adjusted so as to Sl.1.9 The basic procedure will be to rotary feed all the 
achieve optimum instrument distinction between the reference tubes in the order past the search unit (transducer) with the feed 
_nC>t:cl~es) and plain portion of tubing when calibrating equip- helix less than the scanning width of the search unit. As the 
ment to 7:he reference standard:··-·-·- - - - - - --- - - - -tubes-are fed-past the-transducer,-the alarm _system shall b~ _ 
S 1.1.6.1 Search unit position shall be such that shear waves observed for indications of defects equal to or greater than the 
are propagated within the tube being tested. If both outside and reference standard. Tubes which show such indications shall be 
inside diameter reference notches are used, the optimum angle rejected. 
shall be used which will indicate both notches as close to equal S 1.1.10 Standard procedure will be to test the material in 
size as possible. one direction of helical feed only. Testing in both directions 
Sl.1.6.2 The test frequency to be used shall be chosen to may be done if so specified by customer. 
S 1.1.11 Any tubes that do not show indications above the yield the best distinction between reference notches and plain level determined by the reference standard shall be held in a lot 
areas of tubing. In general, 2 -25 or 5 .o MHz will be used. until the reference standard is run and instrument calibration is 
Sl.1.6.3 Instrument sensitivity shall be adjusted to allow proved by triggering alarm system on the reference notch or 
reference notch or notches to present a pip or pips on the scope notches. After calibration is proved to have been correct, this 
screen at 50 % to 70 % of instrument saturation level. The lot of tubes shall be considered tested and accepted as to 
Automatic Defect Monitoring System shall be adjusted to maximum defect size corresponding to the reference standard 
monitor by means of electronic gates, the portion of the screen used. 
where the reference notch is presented. The sensitivity of the Sl.1.12 Rejected tubing may be salvaged by polishing or 
alarm system shall be adjusted to indicate audibly and visibly other suitable means when practical and retested after the 
when the reference notch is fed past the search unit. elimination of the cause of rejection. Such material that meets 
947 