SA-358/SA-358M ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
Specification for 
Electric-Fusion-Welded Austenitic Chromium-Nickel 
Stainless Steel Pipe for High-Temperature Service and 
General Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers electric-fusion-welded auste­
nitic chromium-nickel stainless steel pipe suitable for corrosive 
or high-temperature service, or both, or for general applica­
tions. 
NoTE 1-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diaineter," "size," and "n01ninal size." 
1.2 This specification covers the grades of alloy and stain­
less steel listed in Table 1. The selection of the proper grade 
and requirements for heat treatment shall be at the discretion of 
the purchaser, dependent on the service conditions to be 
encountered. 
1.3 Five classes of pipe are covered as follows: 
1.3.l Class I-Pipe shall be double welded by processes 
employing filler metal in all passes and shall be completely 
radio graphed. 
1.3.2 Class 2-Pipe shall be double welded by processes 
employing filler metal in all passes. No radiography is re­
quired. 
1.3.3 Class 3-Pipe shall be single welded by processes 
employing filler metal in all passes and shall be completely 
radiographed. 
1.3.4 Class 4-Same as Class 3 except that the weld pass 
exposed to the inside pipe surface may be made without the 
addition of filler metal (see 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2). 
l.3.5 Class 5-Pipe shall be double welded by processes 
employing filler metal in all passes and shall be spot radio­
graphed. 
1.4 Supplementary requirements covering provisions rang­
ing from additional testing to formalized procedures for 
566 
manufacturing practice are provided. Supplementary Require­
ments S 1 through S6 are included as options to be specified 
when desired. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in nonconformance with the 
specification. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A240/ A240M Specification for Chromium and Chromium­
Nickel Stainless Steel Plate, Sheet, and Strip for Pressure 
Vessels and for General Applications 
A262 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Austenitic Stainless Steels 
A480/A480M Specification for General Requirements for 
Flat-Rolled Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
A999/A999M Specification for General Requirements for 
Alloy and Stainless Steel Pipe 
E527 Practice for Numbering Metals and Alloys in the 
Unified Numbering System (UNS) 