SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
NoTE 5-Unless otherwise specified, structural products are normally 
furnished in the as-rolled condition and are subjected to visual inspection 
by the manufacturer or processor. Non-injurious surface or internal 
imperfections, or both, may be present in the structural product as 
delivered and the structural product may require conditioning by the 
purchaser to improve its appearance or in preparation for welding, coating, 
or other further operations. 
More restrictive requirements may be specified by invoking supplemen­
tary requirements or by agreement between the purchaser and the supplier. 
Structural products that exhibit injurious defects during subsequent 
fabrication are deemed not to comply with the applicable product 
specification. (See 17 .2.) Fabricators should be aware that cracks may 
initiate upon bending a sheared or burned edge during the fabrication 
process; this is not considered to be a fault of the steel but is rather a 
function of the induced cold-work or the heat-affected zone. 
The conditioning requirements in 9.2, 9.3, and 9.4 limit the condition­
ing allowed to be performed by the manufacturer or processor. Condition­
ing of imperfections beyond the limits of 9.2, 9.3, and 9.4 may be 
performed by parties other than the manufacturer or processor at the 
discretion of the purchaser. 
9.2 Plate Conditioning: 
9.2.1 The grinding of plates by the manufacturer or proces­
sor to remove imperfections on the top or bottom surface shall 
be subject to the limitations that the area ground is well faired 
without abrupt changes in contour and the grinding does not 
reduce the thickness of the plate by (J) more than 7 % under 
the nominal thickness for plates ordered to weight per square 
foot or mass per square metre, but in no case more than 1/s in. 
[3 mm]; or (2) below the permissible minimum thickness for 
plates ordered to thickness in inches or millimetres. 
9.2.2 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) following the 
removal of imperfections on the top or bottom surface of plates 
by chipping, grinding, or arc-air gouging shall be subject to the 
following limiting conditions: 
9.2.2.l The chipped, ground, or gouged area shall not 
exceed 2 % of the area of the surface being conditioned. 
9.2.2.2 After removal of any imperfections preparatory to 
welding, the thickness of the plate at any location shall not be 
reduced by more than 30 % of the nominal thickness of the 
plate. (Specification A131/A131M restricts the reduction in 
thickness to 20 % maximum.) 
9.2.3 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) following the 
removal of injurious imperfections on the edges of plates by 
grinding, chipping, or arc-air gouging by the manufacturer or 
processor shall be subject to the limitation that, prior to 
welding, the depth of the depression, measured from the plate 
edge inward, is not more than the thickness of the plate or 1 in. 
[25 mm], whichever is the lesser. 
9.3 Structural Size Shapes, Bar Size Shapes, and Sheet 
Piling Conditioning: 
9.3.1 The grinding, or chipping and grinding, of structural 
size shapes, bar size shapes, and sheet piling by the manufac­
turer or processor to remove imperfections shall be subject to 
the limitations that the area ground is well faired without 
abrupt changes in contour and the depression does not extend 
below the rolled surface by more than (J) 1/32 in. [1 mm], for 
material less than 3/s in. [10 mm] in thickness; (2) 1/16 in. [2 
mm], for material 3fs to 2 in. [10 to 50 mm] inclusive in 
thickness; or (3) 1/s in. [3 mm], for material over 2 in. [50 mm] 
in thickness. 
9.3.2 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) following 
removal of imperfections that are greater in depth than the 
limits listed in 9.3.1 shall be subject to the following limiting 
conditions: 
9.3.2.1 The total area of the chipped or ground surface of 
any piece prior to welding shall not exceed 2 % of the total 
surface area of that piece. 
9.3.2.2 The reduction of thickness of the material resulting 
from removal of imperfections prior to welding shall not 
exceed 30 % of the nominal thickness at the location of the 
imperfection, nor shall the depth of depression prior to welding 
exceed 1 ¼ in. [32 mm] in any case except as noted in 9.3.2.3. 
9.3.2.3 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) following 
grinding, chipping, or arc-air gouging of the toes of angles, 
beams, channels, and zees and the stems and toes of tees shall 
be subject to the limitation that, prior to welding, the depth of 
the depression, measured from the toe inward, is not more than 
the thickness of the material at the base of the depression or ½ 
in. [12.5 mm], whichever is the lesser. 
9.3.2.4 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) and grinding 
to correct or build up the interlock of any sheet piling section 
at any location shall be subject to the limitation that the total 
surface area of the weld not exceed 2 % of the total surface 
area of the piece. 
9.4 Bar Conditioning: 
9.4.1 The conditioning of bars by the manufacturer or 
processor to remove imperfections by grinding, chipping, or 
some other means shall be subject to the limitations that the 
conditioned area is well faired and the affected sectional area'is 
not reduced by more than the applicable permitted variations 
.. (see Section 12). 
10 
9.4.2 The deposition of weld metal (see 9.5) following 
chipping or grinding to remove imperfections that are greater 
in depth than the limits listed in 9.4.1 shall be subject to the 
following conditions: 
9.4.2.1 The total area of the chipped or ground surface of 
any piece, prior to welding, shall not exceed 2 % of the total 
surface area of the piece. 
9.4.2.2 The reduction of sectional dimension of a round, 
square, or hexagon bar, or the reduction in thickness of a flat 
bar, resulting from removal of an imperfection, prior to 
welding, shall not exceed 5 % of the nominal dimension or 
thickness at the location of the imperfection. 
9.4.2.3 For the edges of flat bars, the depth of the condi­
tioning depression prior to welding shall be measured from the 
edge inward and shall be limited to a maximum depth equal to 
the thickness of the flat bar or ½ in. [12.5 mm], whichever is 
less. 
9.5 Repair by Welding: 
9.5.1 General Requirements: 
9.5.1.1 Repair by welding shall be in accordance with a 
welding procedure specification (WPS) using shielded metal 
arc welding (SMAW), gas metal arc welding (GMAW), flux 
cored arc welding (FCAW), or submerged arc welding (SAW) 
processes. Shielding gases used shall be of welding quality. 
9.5.1.2 Electrodes and electrode-flux combinations shall be 
in accordance with the requirements of A WS Specifications 
A5.l/A5.1M, A5.5/A5.5M, A5.17/A5.17M, A5.18/A5.18M, 