SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Terminology Relating to 
Steel, Stainless Steel, Related Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
1. Scope 
1.1 This standard is a compilation of definitions of terms 
related to steel, stainless steel, related alloys, and ferroalloys. 
1.2 When a term is used in an ASTM document for which 
Committee A0l is responsible, it is included herein only when 
judged, after review by Subcommittee A0l.92, to be a gener­
ally usable term. 
1.3 Some definitions include a discussion section, which is 
a mandatory part of the definition and contains additional 
information that is relevant to the meaning of the defined term. 
1.4 Definitions of terms specific to a particular standard will 
appear in that standard and will supersede any definitions of 
identical terms in this standard. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
3. Terminology 
3.1 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
Accm• Ac 1, Ac 3, Ac,r-See transformation temperature. 
Aecm, Ae 1 , Ae 3 , Ae,r-See transformation temperature. 
age hardening, n-hardening by aging, usually after rapid 
cooling or cold working. 
age hardening, n-see precipitation hardening. 
aging, n-a change in the properties of certain steels that 
occurs at ambient or moderately elevated temperatures after 
hot working or a heat treatment ( quench aging, natural 
aging, or artificial aging) or after a cold-working operation 
(strain aging). 
DiscussION-The change in properties is often, but not always, due to 
precipitation hardening, but never involves a change in the chemical 
composition of the steel. 
alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a stainless steel, that 
conforms to a specification that requires one or more of the 
following elements, by mass percent, to have a minimum 
content equal to or greater than: 0.30 for aluminum; 0.0008 
for boron; 0.30 for chromium; 0.30 for cobalt; 0.40 for 
copper; 0.40 for lead; 1.65 for manganese; 0.08 for molyb­
denum; 0.30 for nickel; 0.06 for niobium (columbium); 0.60 
for silicon; 0.05 for titanium; 0.30 for tungsten (wolfram); 
0.10 for vanadium; 0.05 for zirconium; or 0.10 for any other 
alloying element, except sulphur, phosphorus, carbon, and 
nitrogen. 
annealing, n-a generic term covering any of several heat 
treatments. 
DiscusSION-This treatment is used for purposes such as reducing 
hardness, improving machinability, facilitating cold working, produc­
ing a desired microstructure, or obtaining desired mechanical, physical, 
or other properties. Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: box annealing, bright annealing, full 
annealing, intermediate annealing, isothermal annealing, process 
annealing, spheroidizing, and subcritical annealing. The term 
"annealing," without qualification, implies full annealing. Any pro­
cess of annealing will usually reduce stresses; however, if the 
treatment is applied for the sole purpose of stress reduction, it should be 
designated stress relieving. 
Arcm, Ar 1 , Ar 3 , Ar,r-See transformation temperature. 
artificial aging, n-aging above room temperature. 
atmospheric corrosion resistance, n-the ability to resist 
degradation or alteration of material through chemical reac­
tion with the surrounding atmosphere. 
D1scussioN-This term generally pertains to carbon steel, low alloy 
steel, or micro-alloyed steel. 
austempering, n-heat treatment involving quenching a 
steel object from a temperature above the transformation 
range in a medium maintained at a temperature above the 
martensite range sufficiently fast to avoid the formation of 
1380 