ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-53/SA-53M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the purchase order. 
The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test than is provided in the supplementary 
requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, retest and retreatment 
provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Flattening Test, Seamless Pipe 
Sl.1 A test specimen at least 2½ in. [60 mm] in length shall 
be flattened cold between parallel plates in two steps. During 
the first step, which is a test for ductility, except as allowed by 
S 1.3, S 1.4, and S 1.5, no cracks or breaks on the inside, outside, 
or end surfaces shall be present before the distance between the 
plates is less than the value of H calculated as follows: 
H = (1 +e)tl(e+t!D) 
where: 
H = distance between flattening plates, in. [mm], 
e = deformation per unit length (constant for a given grade 
of steel, 0.09 for Grade A, and 0.07 for Grade B), 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], and 
D = specified outside diameter, in. [mm] 
The H values have been calculated for standard-weight and 
extra-heavy weight pipe from NPS 2V2 to NPS 24 [DN 65 to 
DN 600], inclusive, and are given in Table X2.1. 
Sl.2 During the second step, which is a test for soundness, 
the flattening shall be continued until the test specimen breaks 
or the opposite sides of the test specimen meet. Evidence of 
laminated or unsound material that is revealed during the entire 
flattening test shall be cause for rejection. 
Sl.3 Surface imperfections in the test specimen before 
flattening, but revealed during the first step of the flattening 
test, shall be judged in accordance with the finish requirements 
in Section 12. 
S 1.4 Superficial ruptures as a result of surface imperfections 
shall not be cause for rejection. 
Sl.5 For pipe with a D-to-t ratio less than 10, because the 
strain imposed due to geometry is unreasonably high on the 
inside surface at the 6 and 12 o'clock locations, cracks at such 
locations shall not be cause for rejection. 
Sl.6 One test shall be made on test specimens taken from 
one length of pipe from each lot of each pipe size. A lot shall 
contain no more than one heat, and at the option of the 
manufacturer shall contain no more than 500 lengths of pipe 
(as initially cut after the final pipe-forming operation, prior to 
any further cutting to the required ordered lengths) or 50 tons 
[ 45 Mg] of pipe. 
S 1. 7 If the results of a test for a lot fail to conform to the 
applicable requirements, the lot shall be rejected unless tests of 
additional pipe from the affected lot of double the number 
originally tested are subsequently made and each such test 
conforms to the specified requirements. Only one retest of any 
lot will be permitted. Any individual length of pipe that 
conforms to the test requirements is acceptable. Any individual 
length of pipe that does not conform to the test requirements 
may be resubmitted for test and will be considered acceptable 
if tests taken from each pipe end conform to the specified 
requirements. 
APPENDIXES 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. DEFINITIONS OF TYPES OF PIPE 
Xl.1 Type F, Furnace-Butt-Welded Pipe, Continuous-
Welded Pipe-Pipe produced in multiple lengths from 
coiled skelp and subsequently cut into individual lengths, 
having its longitudinal butt joint forge welded by the mechani­
cal pressure developed in rolling the hot-formed skelp through 
a set of round pass welding rolls. 
Xl.2 Type E, Electric-Resistance-Welded Pipe-Pipe pro­
duced in single lengths, or in multiple lengths from coiled 
skelp and subsequently cut into individual lengths, having a 
149 
longitudinal butt joint wherein coalescence is produced by the 
heat obtained from resistance of the pipe to the flow of electric 
current in a circuit of which the pipe is a part, and by the 
application of pressure. 
Xl.3 Type S, Seamless Pipe-Pipe made without a welded 
seam. It is manufactured by hot working steel and, if necessary, 
by subsequently cold finishing the hot-worked tubular product 
to produce the desired shape, dimensions, and properties. 