SA-484/SA-484M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
APPENDIXES 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. RATIONALE REGARDING DEFINITION OF LOT FOR MECHANICAL PROPERTIES AND CORROSION TESTING 
Xl.1 It is generally recognized that material described as a 
lot must be "produced under the same processing conditions," 
which means the same manufacturing order number, same size, 
same heat, same heat-treating procedure, and same subsequent 
processing. Under those conditions, single samples can be 
selected to be representative of the total lot, with at least one 
sample for each 20 000 pounds of material. 
Xl.2 Following the principle described in Xl.1 generally 
requires that the producer control each of several furnace loads 
constituting the same lot so that: • 
Xl.2.1 Set point temperature and process tolerance match, 
Xl.2.2 Time at temperature for all thermal treatment shall 
match within 10 %, 
Xl.2.3 All furnaces used be similar in size and meet the 
uniformity requirements of a documented furnace quality 
assurance program, and 
Xl .2.4 The quench systems are the same with respect to 
volume, type of quenchant, and circulation rate. 
Xl.2.5 Further, it would be expected that grouped loads be 
handled within a relatively short time period, and that hardness 
testing be performed on at least one sample per charge. 
Xl .3 The old definition of a lot for mechanical testing based 
on simply the words "same size, heat, and heat treatment 
charge in a batch furnace" assumes that heat treating is the only 
process affecting properties. This kind of definition ignores the 
effects of other processing, prior to and subsequent to heat 
treating. Moreover, it assumes that each heat-treated batch will 
be uniform and unique rather than reproducible. In reality, heat 
treating is a process which can be controlled easily throughout 
a batch and from batch to batch, with the net result that 
multiple batches can be considered part of a single lot if 
equipment and processing parameters meet the mandates of 
Xl.1 and Xl.2. 
Xl.4 The sampling specified for mechanical properties is 
not a statistical sampling plan. Therefore, it provides only 
typical data. Assurance of uniformity within the lot can be 
obtained only by the producer adequately controlling the 
processing parameters. 
X2. BAR CODING 
X2.1 Bar coding to identify steel is not specifically ad­
dressed in Committee A0l specifications. Committee A0l 
endorses the AIAG bar code standard for primary metals for 
826 
steel products and proposes that this bar coding standard be 
considered as a possible auxiliary method of identification. 