SA-320 /SA-320M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
starting material; steel bars-alloy; steel bolting; steel flanges; 
steel valves; temperature service applications-low 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified by the purchaser in the 
inquiry, contract, and order. 
Sl. Impact Properties 
S 1.1 When impact properties are desired for austenitic steel 
grades exempt from testing under 6.2.1, test shall be made as 
agreed between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S2. Lateral Expansion 
S2. l When lateral expansion measurements for ferritic 
steels are required in addition to the energy absorption require­
ments of 6.2.1.1, the minimum value for each specimen of a set 
must be .015 in. [0.38 mm]. The test temperature shall be 
specified by the purchaser and agreed upon by the producer. 
Norn S2.1-Grades 17, 17A, 17B will generally have diffi.culty 
meeting the minimum value at -150 °F [-101 °C]. Grade 143 may be 
preferred. 
S3. Hardness Testing of Class 2 Bolting Components for 
ASME Applications 
S3.l The maximum hardness shall be Rockwell C35 imme­
diately under the thread roots. The hardness shall be taken on 
a flat area at least Vs in. [3 mm] across, prepared by removing 
threads. No more material than necessary shall be removed to 
prepare the flat area. Hardness determinations shall be made at 
the same frequency as tensile tests. 
S4. Restriction to Use Only Ingot Cast Steel 
S4.1 The starting material must be ingot cast. Use of 
continuous cast material is not permitted. 
APPENDIX 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. STRAIN HARDENING OF AUSTENITIC STEELS 
Xl.1 Strain hardening is the increase in strength and hard­
ness that results from plastic deformation below the recrystal­
lization temperature (cold work). This effect is produced in 
austenitic stainless steels by reducing oversized bars or wire to 
the desired final size by cold drawing or other process. The 
degree of strain hardening achievable in any alloy is limited by 
its strain hardening characteristics. In addition, the amount of 
strain hardening that can be produced is further limited by the 
variables of the process, such as the total amount of cross­
section reduction, die angle, and bar size. In large diameter 
bars, for example, plastic deformation will occur principally in 
the outer regions of the bar, so that the increased strength and 
hardness due to strain hardening is achieved predominantly 
near the surface of the bar. That is, the smaller the bar, the 
472 
greater the penetration of strain hardening. 
Xl.2 Thus, the mechanical properties of a given strain 
hardened bolting components, such as a bolt, screw, or stud, are 
dependent not just on the alloy, but also on the size of bar from 
which it is machined. The minimum bar size that can be used, 
however, is established by the configuration of the component, 
so that the configuration can affect the strength of the compo­
nent. 
Xl.3 For example, a stud of a particular alloy and size may 
be machined from a smaller diameter bar than a bolt of the 
san1e alloy and size because a larger diameter bar is required to 
accommodate the head of the bolt. The stud, therefore, is likely 
to be stronger than the same size bolt in a given alloy. 