SA-376/SA-376M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Seamless Austenitic Steel Pipe for High-Temperature 
Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers seamless austenitic steel pipe 
intended for high-temperature service. Among the grades 
covered are H grades and nitrogen grades that are specifically 
intended for high-temperature service. 
Norn I-This specification was 01iginally developed for use for piping 
in the central stations of electric-power generating thermal plants. 
However, its use is not restricted to such applications and it may be used 
in other applications for which the attributes of the materials, as defined by 
this specification, are appropriate. 
1.2 Optional supplementary requirements (Sl through SlO) 
are provided. These supplementary requirements specify addi­
tional tests that will be made only when stated in the order, 
together with the number of such tests required. 
1.3 Grades TP321 and TP321H have lower strength require­
ments for nominal wall thicknesses greater than 3/s in. [9.5 
mm]. 
1.4 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. 
Norn 2-The dimensionless designators NPS (nominal pipe size) and 
DN (Diametre Nominel) have been substituted in this standard for such 
traditional tenns as "nominal diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
l .5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
640 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.l ASTM Standards: 
A262 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Austenitic Stainless Steels 
A999/ A999M Specification for General Requirements for 
Alloy and Stainless Steel Pipe 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
E213 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of Metal Pipe and 
Tubing 
E381 Method of Macroetch Testing Steel Bars, Billets, 
Blooms, and Forgings 
E426 Practice for Electromagnetic (Eddy Current) Examina­
tion of Seamless and Welded Tubular Products, Titanium, 
Austenitic Stainless Steel and Similar Alloys 
2.2 Other Standards: 
SNT-TC- lA Personnel Qualification and Certification in 
Nondestructive Testing 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 Orders for material to this specification should include 
the following, as required to describe the desired material 
adequately: 
3.1.1 Quantity (feet, centimetres, or number of lengths), 
3.1.2 Name of material (seamless austenitic steel pipe), 
3.1.3 Grade (Table 1), 
3.1.4 Size (nominal size, or outside diameter and schedule 
number or average wall thiclmess), 
3.1.5 Lengths (specific or random), (Permissible Variations 
in Length Section of Specification A999/ A999M), 
3.1.6 End finish (Ends Section of Specification A999/ 
A999M), 
3.1.7 Optional requirements (Section 8) (see Hydrostatic 
Test Requirements Section and the Permissible Variation in 
Weight for Seamless Pipe Section for weighing individual 
lengths, of Specification A999/A999M), (see 9.6, repairing by 
welding; 13.3, die stamping), 