ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-426/SA-426M 
15. Rejection 
15.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of the specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the pipe may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
16. Product Marking 
16.1 Each length of pipe shall be legibly marked with the 
manufacturer's name or brand, the specification number and 
grade. In addition, heat numbers or serial numbers that are 
traceable to heat numbers shall be marked on each length of 
pipe. 
17. Keywords 
17 .1 alloy steel; centrifugal; ferritic; high-temperature ser­
vice; pipe; stainless steel; steel castings 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details of the 
supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. The 
specified tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
S1. Additional Tension Tests 
Sl.1 Additional tension tests shall be made at a temperature 
to be specified by the customer, and the properties to be met are 
a matter of agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer. 
S2. Flattening Test 
S2.1 The flattening test shall be made on specimens from 
one or both ends of each length of pipe. If the specimen from 
any end of any length fails to conform to the requirements of 
Specification A999/A999M, that length shall be rejected. 
S3. Photomicrographs 
S3.l The manufacturer shall furnish one photomicrograph at 
100 diameters from one specimen of as-finished pipe from each 
heat in each heat-treatment lot. Such photomicrographs shall 
be suitable identified as to pipe size, wall thickness, and heat. 
Such photomicrographs are for information only, to show the 
actual metal strncture of the pipe as furnished. No photomi­
crographs for the individual pieces purchased shall be required 
except as specified in Section S4. 
S4. Photomicrographs for Individual Pieces 
S4.1 The manufacturer shall furnish photomicrographs from 
one or both ends of each pipe. All photomicrographs required 
shall be properly identified as to heat number, size, and wall 
thickness of pipe from which the section was taken. Photomi­
crographs shall be further identified to permit association of 
each photomicrograph with the individual length of pipe it 
represents. 
SS. Metal Structure and Etching Tests 
S5.l Etching tests shall be made on transverse sections from 
the pipe and shall reveal the macrostrncture of the material. 
Such tests are for information only. 
S6. Radiographic Examination 
S6.l The castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of X rays or gamma rays. The inspection procedure shall 
be in accordance with Guide E94 and the types and degrees of 
discontinuities considered shall be judged by Reference Radio­
graphs El86, E280, or E446. The extent of the examination 
and the basis for acceptance shall be subject to agreement 
between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S7. Liquid Penetrant Examination 
S7.l The castings shall be examined for surface discontinui­
ties by means of liquid penetrant inspection. The method of 
peiforming the liquid penetrant test shall be in accordance with 
Practice El65. The areas to be inspected, the methods and 
types of liquid penetrants to be used, the developing procedure, 
and the basis for acceptance shall be as specified on the inquiry 
or invitation to bid and on the purchase order or contract or 
both, or as agreed upon between the manufacturer and pur­
chaser. 
S8. Magnetic Particle Inspection 
S8.1 The castings shall be examined by magnetic particle 
inspection. The inspection procedure used shall be in accor­
dance with Practice E709. The extent of examination and the 
basis for acceptance shall be subject to agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
715 
S9. Ultrasonic Inspection 
S9.l The castings shall be examined ultrasonically in accor­
dance with Practice A609/ A609M. The extent of the examina­
tion and the basis of acceptance shall be subject to agreement 
between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S10. Residual Elements 
S 10.1 An analysis for the elements specified in Table S 1.1 
shall be included in those analyses specified in Section 6. The 
chemical composition thus determined shall conform to the 
requirements of Table S 1.1. 