ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-999 /SA-999M 
concern the manufacture of the product ordered. The manufac­
turer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities to be 
satisfied that the product is being furnished in accordance with 
this specification. All required tests and inspection shall be 
made at the place of manufacture prior to shipment, unless 
otherwise specified, and shall be conducted so as not to 
interfere unnecessmily with the manufacturer's operations. 
24. Rejection 
24.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of the specification based upon the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the applicable product specification, 
the length may be rejected and the manufacturer shall be 
notified. Disposition of rejected pipe shall be a matter of 
agreement between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
24.2 Pipe that fails in any of the forming operations or in the 
process of installation and is found to be defective shall be set 
aside and the manufacturer shall be notified for mutual 
evaluation of the suitability of the pipe. Disposition of such 
pipe shall be matter for agreement. 
25. Certification 
25.1 The manufacturer or supplier shall furnish to the 
purchaser a certificate of compliance stating that the product 
was manufactured, sampled, tested, and inspected in accor­
dance with the specification, including year-date, the supple­
mentary requirements, and any other requirements designated 
in the purchase order or contract, and has been found to meet 
such requirements. A signature or notarization is not required; 
however, the document shall be dated and shall clem·ly identify 
the organization submitting it. 
25 .1.1 Notwithstanding the absence of a signature or 
notarization, the certifying organization is responsible for the 
contents of the document. 
25.2 In addition to the certificate of compliance, the manu­
facturer or supplier shall furnish to the purchaser a test report 
that includes the following information and test results, as 
applicable: 
25.2.1 Heat number, 
25.2.2 Heat analysis, 
25.2.3 Product analysis if specified or required, 
25.2.4 Tensile properties, 
25.2.5 Width in the gauge length, if longitudinal strip 
tension test specimens were used, 
25.2.6 Bend test acceptable, 
25.2.7 Flattening test acceptable, 
25.2.8 Hydrostatic test pressure, 
25.2.9 Nondestructive electric test method, 
25.2.10 Impact test results, and 
25.2.11 Other test results or information required to be 
reported by the applicable product specification. 
25.3 Test results or information required to be reported by 
supplementary requirements, or other requirements designated 
in the purchase order or contract shall be reported but may be 
reported in a separate document. 
25.4 The test report shall include a statement of explanation 
for the letter added to the specification number marked on the 
tubes (see 26.5) if all of the requirements of the specification 
have not been completed. The purchaser must certify that all 
requirements of the specification have been completed before 
the removal of the letter (that is, X, Y, or Z). 
25.5 A test report, certificate of compliance, or similar 
document printed from or used in electronic form from an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) shall be regarded as having 
the same validity as a counterpart printed in the certifying 
organization's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and the supplier. Notwithstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission is responsible for its content. 
26. Product Marking 
26.1 Each length of pipe shall be legibly marked with the 
manufacturer's name or brand, the specification number (year 
of issue not required) m1d grade. Marking shall begin approxi­
mately 12 in. [300 mm] from the end of each length of pipe. 
For pipe less than NPS 2 and pipe under 3 ft [1 m] in length, 
the required information may be marked on a tag securely 
attached to the bundle or box in which the pipes are shipped. 
26.2 When pipe marked as specified is rejected, the ASTM 
designation shall be canceled. 
26.3 For austenitic steel pipe, the marking paint or ink shall 
not contain detrimental amounts of harmful metals, or metal 
salts, such as zinc, lead, or copper, which cause conosive 
attack on heating. 
26.4 Pipes that have been weld repaired in accordance with 
17 .1 shall be marked WR. 
26.5 When it is specified that certain requirements of a 
specification adopted by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Committee are to be completed by the purchaser upon receipt 
of the material, the manufacturer shall indicate that all require­
ments of the specification have not been completed by a letter 
such as X, Y, or Z, immediately following the specification 
number. This letter may be removed after completion of all 
requirements in accordance with the specification. An expla­
nation of specification requirements to be completed is pro­
vided in 25. l. 
27. Packaging, Marking, and Loading 
27.1 If specified in the purchase order, packaging, marking, 
and loading for shipment shall be in accordance with the 
procedures of Practices A 700. 
28. Government Procurement 
28.1 If specified in the contract or purchase order, the 
following requirements shall be considered in the inquiry, 
contract, or order for agencies of the U.S. Government where 
scale- free pipe is required. Such requirements shall take 
precedence if there is a conflict between these requirements 
and those of the applicable product specification. 
1493 