ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-135/SA-135M (ASTM A135/A135M) 
16.2.4 ff any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws not associated with the quality of the steel or the 
welding, it may be discarded and another specimen substituted. 
16.2.5 If the results of the tension tests of any lot do not 
conform to the requirements specified in 9.1, retests of two 
additional lengths from the same lot shall be made, each of 
which shall conform to the requirements specified. 
16.2.6 If the percentage of elongation of any tension test 
specimen is less than that specified in 8.1, and any part of the 
fracture is more than ¾-in. [19.0-mm] from the center of the 
gauge length as indicated by scribe scratches marked on the 
specimen before testing, the specimen may be discarded and 
another substituted. 
16.3 Flattening Test: 
16.3.1 Specimens for flattening tests shall be smooth at the 
ends and free from burrs. 
16.3.2 If any section of the pipe fails to comply with the 
requirements of 9.1, for pipe produced in single lengths, other 
sections may be cut from the same end of the same length until 
satisfactory tests are obtained, except that the finished pipe 
shall not be shorter than 80 % of its length after the initial 
cropping; otherwise, the length shall be rejected. For pipe 
produced in multiple lengths, retests may be cut from each end 
of each individual length in the multiple; such tests shall be 
made with the weld alternately 0° and 90° from the line of 
direction of force. 
16.4 All specimens shall be tested at room temperature. 
17. Inspection 
17 .1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
free entry, at all times while work on the contract of the 
purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's 
works that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. 
The manufacturer shall afford the inspector, without charge, all 
reasonable facilities to satisfy him that the material is being 
furnished in accordance with this specification. All tests 
( except check analysis) and inspection shall be made at the 
place of manufacture prior to shipment, unless otherwise 
specified, and shall be so conducted as not to interfere 
unnecessarily with the manufacturer's operation. 
18. Rejection 
18.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of this specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
18.2 Pipe found in fabrication or in installation to be 
unsuitable for the intended use, under the scope and require­
ments of this specification, may be set aside and the manufac­
turer notified. Such pipe shall be subject to mutual investiga­
tion as to the nature and severity of the deficiency and the 
forming or installation, or both, conditions involved. Disposi­
tion shall be a matter for agreement. 
19. Certificate of Compliance 
19.1 When specified in the purchase order, the producer or 
supplier shall furnish to the purchaser a certificate of compli­
ance stating that the pipe has been manufactured, sampled, 
tested and inspected in accordance with this specification 
(including the year of issue) and has been found to meet the 
requirements. 
20. Identification of Material 
20.1 Each length of pipe shall be legibly marked with 
appropriate symbols by stenciling, stamping, or rolling to show 
the manufacturer's name, the size, the specification 
designation, the grade, and the hydrostatic test pressure when 
tested, or the letters "NH" when not tested. 
20.2 In addition to the requirements in 20.1, bar coding is 
acceptable as a supplemental identification method. The pur­
chaser may specify in the order a specific bar coding system to 
be used. 
21. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
21.1 When specified on the purchase order, packaging, 
marking, and loading for shipment shall be in accordance with 
Guide A700. 
21.2 The applicable levels shall be as specified in the 
contract. Marking for shipment of such material shall be in 
accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123 for civil agencies and 
MIL-STD-129 if continuous marking is required for military 
agencies. 
22. Keywords 
22.1 eddy current testing; electric resistance welded pipe; 
hydrostatic testing; plain end pipe; Schedule 10 pipe; threaded 
pipe 
191 