ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
R 
/ 
I I 
, 
I 
I 
I , 
I 
I 
' I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' I 
' I 
I 
I , 
I , 
I 
' I , 
I , 
' Strain 
A n 
, r , , 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
FIG. 9 Stress-strain Diagram for Determination of Yield Strength 
by Offset Method 
BEND TEST 
15. Description 
15.1 The bend test is one method for evaluating ductility, 
but it cannot be considered as a quantitative means of predict­
ing service perfonnance in all bending operations. The severity 
of the bend test is primarily a function of the angle of bend of 
the inside diameter to which the specimen is bent, and of the 
cross section of the specimen. These conditions are varied 
according to location and orientation of the test specimen and 
the chemical composition, tensile properties, hardness, type, 
and quality of the steel specified. Test Methods E190 and E290 
may be consulted for methods of performing the test. 
15.2 Unless otherwise specified, it shall be permissible to 
age bend test specimens. The time-temperature cycle employed 
must be such that the effects of previous processing will not be 
materially changed. It may be accomplished by aging at room 
temperature 24 to 48 h, or in shorter time at moderately 
elevated temperatures by boiling in water or by heating in oil 
or in an oven. 
15.3 Bend the test specimen at room temperature to an 
inside diameter, as designated by the applicable product 
specifications, to the extent specified. The speed of bending is 
ordinarily not an important factor. 
HARDNESS TEST 
16. General 
16.1 A hardness test is a means of determining resistance to 
penetration and is occasionally employed to obtain a quick 
approximation of tensile strength. Tables 2-5 are for the 
conversion of hardness measurements from one scale to 
another or to approximate tensile strength. These conversion 
values have been obtained from computer-generated curves 
and are presented to the nearest 0.1 point to permit accurate 
reproduction of those curves. All converted hardness values 
must be considered approximate. All converted Rockwell and 
Vickers hardness numbers shall be rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
16.2 Hardness Testing: 
16.2.1 If the product specification permits alternative hard­
ness testing to detennine conformance to a specified hardness 
requirement, the conversions listed in Tables 2-5 shall be used. 
16.2.2 When recording converted hardness numbers, the 
measured hardness and test scale shall be indicated in 
parentheses, for example: 353 HBW (38 HRC). This means 
that a hardness value of 38 was obtained using the Rockwell C 
scale and converted to a Brinell hardness of 353. 
17. Brinell Test 
17 .1 Description: 
17.1.1 A specified load is applied to a flat surface of the 
specimen to be tested, through a tungsten carbide ball of 
specified diameter. The average diameter of the indentation is 
used as a basis for calculation of the Brinell hardness number. 
The quotient of the applied load divided by the area of the 
surface of the indentation, which is assumed to be spherical, is 
termed the Brinell hardness number (HBW) in accordance with 
the following equation: 
where: 
HBW 
p 
D 
d 
HBW= P![(nDl2)(D - \jD 2 - d 2 )] (4) 
= Brinell hardness number, 
= applied load, kgf, 
= diameter of the tungsten carbide ball, mm, and 
= average diameter of the indentation, mm. 
NoTE 12-The Brinell hardness number is more conveniently secured 
from standard tables such as Table 6, which show numbers corresponding 
to the various indentation diameters, usually in increments of 0.05 mm. 
Norn 13-In Test Method ElO the values are stated in SI units, whereas 
in this section kg/m units are used. 
17 .1.2 The standard Brinell test using a 10 mm tungsten 
carbide ball employs a 3000 kgf load for hard materials and a 
1500 or 500 kgf load for thin sections or soft materials (see 
Annex A2 on Steel Tubular Products). Other loads and differ­
ent size indentors may be used when specified. In recording 
hardness values, the diameter of the ball and the load must be 
stated except when a 10 mm ball and 3000 kgf load are used. 
17 .1.3 A range of hardness can properly be specified only 
for quenched and tempered or normalized and tempered 
material. For annealed material a maximum figure only should 
be specified. For normalized material a minimum or a maxi­
mum hardness may be specified by agreement. In general, no 
hardness requirements should be applied to untreated material. 
17 .1 .4 Brinell hardness may be required when tensile prop­
erties are not specified. 
595 
17 .2 Apparatus-Equipment shall meet the following re­
quirements: 
17 .2.1 Testing Machine-A Brinell hardness testing ma­
chine is acceptable for use over a loading range within which 
its load measuring device is accurate to :±: 1 %. 