SA-409 /SA-409M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
12. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
12.1 The finished pipe shall have a workmanlike finish. 
12.2 Repair of Defects by Machining or Grinding-Pipe 
showing moderate slivers or other surface defects may be 
machined or ground inside or outside to a depth which will 
ensure the removal of all defects providing the wall thickness 
is not reduced below the minimum specified in 9 .1. 
12.3 Repair of Defects by Welding-Defects which violate 
minimum wall thickness may be repaired by welding, but only 
with the approval of the purchaser. Areas shall be suitably 
prepared for welding with tightly closed defects removed by 
grinding. Open, clean defects, such as pits or impressions, may 
require no preparation. All welders, welding operators, and 
weld procedures shall be qualified to the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX. Unless the purchaser speci­
fies otherwise, pipe required to be heat treated under the 
provisions of 5.3 shall be heat treated or reheat treated 
following repair welding. Repaired lengths, where repair depth 
is greater tl1an ¼ of the thickness, shall be pressure tested or 
repressure tested after repair and heat treatment (if any). Repair 
welds shall also be examined by suitable non-destructive 
examination techniques, including any techniques specifically 
required of the primary weld. 
12.4 The pipe shall be free of scale and contaminating iron 
particles. Pickling, blasting, or surface finishing is not manda­
tory when pipe is bright annealed. The purchaser may request 
that a passivating treatment be applied. 
13. Test Specimens 
13.1 Transverse tension and bend test specimens may be 
taken from a test plate of the same material as the pipe, made 
by attaching a formed cylinder to the end of the pipe and 
welding the abutting edges as a continuation and duplication of 
the seam of the pipe (run-off plate). As an alternative to a 
formed cylinder, the run-off plate may consist of flat plates 
with reinforcing bars clamped to the underside to prevent 
distortion. The run-off plate material shall be of the same heat, 
preferably shear croppings from the same plate. 
13.2 When heat treatment is required, test specimens shall 
be cut from pipe after the heat treating has been completed, or 
specimens removed from the pipe prior to heat treating shall be 
heat treated with the pipe. 
14. Transverse Guided-Bend Weld Tests 
14.1 Two bend test specimens shall be taken transversely 
across the weld. One shall be subject to a face guided-bend test 
and the second to a root guided-bend test. One specimen shall 
be bent with the inside surface of the pipe against the plunger, 
and the other with the outside surface against the plunger. 
14.2 The bend test shall be acceptable if no cracks or other 
defects exceeding 1/s in. [3 mm] in any direction are present in 
the weld metal or between the weld and the pipe metal after 
bending. Cracks which originate along the edges of the 
specimen dming testing, and that are less than ¼ in. [6.5 llllll] 
measured in any direction shall not be considered. 
15. Pressure Tests 
15 .1 Where hydrostatic test equipment is not available, the 
pipe may be air or gas pressure tested with an internal pressure 
of 100 psi [700 kPa]. The weld and weld area shall be inspected 
with the use of soap solution or any other prepared solution 
which will detect the leakage of air or gas from the inside. 
15.2 Instead of a pressure test, when mutually agreed upon 
between the purchaser and manufacturer, the entire weld area 
of each pipe, including circumferential welds, may be tested by 
nondestructive testing methods. These methods shall be ca­
pable of detecting both surface and subsurface defects. 
16. Inspection 
16.1 When specified in the purchase order, the pipe may be 
inspected at the manufacturer's plant by an inspector repre­
senting the purchaser. The inspector shall have entry at all 
times. The manufacturer shall afford the inspector, all reason­
able facilities to satisfy him that the material is being furnished 
in accordance with these specifications. 
690 
17. Certification 
17 .1 Certification in accordance with the provisions of 
Specification A999/ A999M shall be furnished. When specified 
on the purchase order or when a specific type of melting 
has been specified on the purchase order, the type of 
melting used shall also be reported to the purchaser or the 
purchaser's representative. 
18. Product Marking 
18.1 Each length of pipe manufactured in accordance with 
this specification shall have the following identifying marking 
witl1in 12 in. [300 llllll] of one end: manufacturer's name or 
trade-mark, specification number, grade number of the alloy, 
the manufacturer's heat number, size, and schedule number. 
Additional marking requirements for heat treatment are de­
scribed in Supplementary Requirement S2. 
18.2 Marking shall be legibly stenciled with a suitable paint 
or permanent marking compound, except when otherwise 
specified by the purchaser. 