ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-414/SA-414M 
source of the material is the coil used to qualify the lot, the 
middle test shall be reported as the second middle test on the 
report. The test report shall contain the results of four tensile 
tests and all must meet the requirements tensile requirements 
table. 
10.3 A signature is not required on the test report. However, 
the document shall clearly identify the organization submitting 
the report. Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting the report is responsible for the content 
of the report. 
10.4 A Material Test Report, Certificate of Inspection, or 
similar document printed from or used in electronic form from 
an electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be 
regarded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document must meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard and the purchaser and supplier. Notwithstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission is responsible for the content of the report. 
11. Product Marking 
11.1 The name or brand of the manufacturer, heat and slab 
number, specification designation number, and grade shall be 
legibly and durably marked on each cut length sheet in two 
places not less than 12 in. [300 mm] from the edges. Cut length 
sheets, the maximum lengthwise and crosswise, dimensions of 
which do not exceed 72 in. [1800 mm], shall be legibly and 
durably marked in one place approximately midway between 
the center and a side edge. The manufacturer's test identifica­
tion number shall be legibly and durably marked on each test 
specimen. Steel-die marking of sheets is prohibited on material 
< 0.250 in. [6 mm]. 
11.2 For coil product, the information required in 11.1 shall 
be legibly and durably marked both on each coil and on a tag 
affixed to each coil. 
12. Keywords 
12.1 carbon steel sheet; pressure vessel steels; steel sheet 
697 