ASME BPVC,II.A-2025 SA-691/SA-691M 
S7.3 Acceptance Standards, shall be by agreement between 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S8. Liquid Penetrant Examination of Base Metal 
S8. l All accessible surfaces of the pipe shall be examined in 
accordance with Test Method El65/E165M. Accessible is as 
defined in S7 .1. 
S8.2 Butt-weld end preparations are to be completely liquid 
penetrant examined in accordance with Test Method E165/ 
E165M. 
S8.3 Acceptance Standards, shall be by agreement between 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S9. Liquid Penetrant Examination of Weld Metal 
S9.1 All accessible surfaces of the pipe shall be examined in 
accordance with Test Method E165/E165M. Accessible is as 
defined in S6.1. 
S9.2 Acceptance Standards, shall be by agreement between 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S10. lntrasonic Test 
SlO.l Plate in Flat: 
Sl0.1.1 One hundred percent on one surface shall be 
scanned. 
Sl0.1.2 Straight search shall be used in accordance with 
Specification A435/A435M. 
Sl0.1.3 Acceptance standards shall be in accordance with 
Specification A435/A435M or as by agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
S11. Repair Welding 
S 11.1 Repair of base metal defects by welding shall be done 
only with customer approval. 
S12. Description of Term 
S12.1 lot-all pipe of the same mill heat of plate material 
and wall thickness (within±¼ in. [6 mm]) heat treated in one 
furnace charge. For pipe that is not heat treated or that is heat 
treated in a continuous furnace, a lot shall consist of each 200 
ft [60 m] or fraction thereof of all pipe of the same mill heat of 
plate material and wall thickness (within ±¼ in. [6 mm]), 
subjected to the same heat treatment. For pipe heat treated in a 
batch-type furnace that is automatically controlled within a 50 
°F [30 °C] range and is equipped with recording pyrometers so 
that heating records are available, a lot shall be defined the 
same as for continuous furnaces. 
S13. ASME Section III Construction 
S13.l Products furnished under this specification that are 
intended for application under the rules of Section III of the 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code shall be manufactured 
by holders of the appropriate ASME Certificate of Authoriza­
tion and Certification Mark. The product is subject to all 
applicable requirements of Section III, including welding, heat 
treatment, nondestructive examination, authorized inspection 
at the point of manufacture, and application of the Certification 
Mark. 
S13.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report form, 
signed by an Authorized Nuclear Inspector, and a material test 
report shall be furnished for each lot of pipe. 
Sl3.3 The plate used to fabricate the pipe shall conform to 
the applicable SA specification in the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code, Section II. The welded joints shall be 
full penetration butt welds as obtained by double welding or by 
other means that will obtain the same quality of deposited weld 
metal on the inside and outside. Welds using metal backing 
strips that remain in place are prohibited. 
Sl3.4 In addition to the requirements of S12 and Section 13 
(Product Marking), each length of pipe shall be so marked as 
to identify each such piece of pipe with the lot and the material 
test report. 
1135 