SA-660 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
and procedures in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code, Section IX, shall be used. All weld repairs shall 
be inspected to the same quality standards used to inspect the 
pipe. 
11.4 Reheat Treatment-Local or full heat treatment in 
accordance with 5.2 shall follow welding. Local grinding 
following welding and retreating shall be considered as meet­
ing the requirements of 5 .1. 
12. Product Marking 
12.1 In addition to the marking prescribed in Specification 
A530/A530M, the marking shall include the wall thickness, 
piece mark, length and additional symbol "S" if the pipe 
conforms to one or more of the supplementary requirements 
specified in Sl to S9, and the heat number or manufacturer's 
number by which the heat can be identified. Identification 
stamping instead of stenciling will be permitted only with the 
written approval of the purchaser. 
12.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 12.1, 
bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental identification 
method. The purchaser may specifiy in the order a specific bar 
coding system to be used. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1. l Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. 
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo­
sition requirements shall be rejected. 
S2. Additional Tension Tests 
S2. l An additional tension test shall be made on a specimen 
from one or each end of each pipe. If this supplementary 
requirement is specified, the number of tests per pipe required 
shall be specified. If a specimen from any length fails to meet 
the required tensile properties (tensile, yield, and elongation), 
that length shall be rejected subject to retreatment in accor­
dance with Specification A530/A530M and satisfactory retest. 
S3. Additional Flattening Tests 
S3.1 The flattening test of Specification A530/A530M shall 
be made on a specimen from one end or both ends of each pipe. 
Crop ends may be used. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails because of lack of ductility 
prior to satisfactory completion of the first step of the flattening 
test requirement that pipe shall be rejected subject to retreat­
ment in accordance with Specification A530/A530M and 
satisfactory retest. If a specimen from any length. of pipe fails 
because of a lack of soundness that length shall be rejected, 
unless subsequent retesting indicates that the remaining length 
is sound. 
S4. Metal Structure and Etching Tests 
S4.1 The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate portions of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 
and reasonably uniform material free from injurious lamina­
tions, cracks, and similar objectionable defects. If this supple­
mentary requirement is specified, the number of tests per pipe 
required shall also be specified. If a specimen from any length 
shows objectionable defects, the length shall be rejected, 
subject to removal of the defective end and subsequent retests 
indicating the remainder of the length to be sound and 
reasonably uniform material. 
SS. Photomicrographs 
S5.1 The manufacturer shall furnish one photomicrograph 
at 100 diam.eters from a specimen of pipe in the as-finished 
condition representing each heat in each heat-treatment lot. 
Such photomicrographs shall be suitably identified as to pipe 
size, wall thickness, and heat. No photomicrographs for the 
individual pieces purchased shall be required except as speci­
fied in Supplementary Requirement S6. Such photomicro­
graphs are for information only, to show the actual metal 
structure of the pipe as furnished. 
S6. Photographs for Individual Pieces 
S6.1 In addition to the photomicrographs required in accor­
dance with Supplementary Requirement S5, the purchaser may 
specify that photomicrographs shall be furnished from one or 
both ends of each pipe. All photomicrographs required shall be 
properly identified as to heat number, size, and wall thickness 
of pipe from which the section was taken. Photomicrographs 
shall be further identified to permit association of each photo­
micrograph with the individual length of pipe it represents. 
S7. Radiographic Inspection 
S7 .1 The pipe shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of X rays or gamma rays. The inspection procedure shall 
be in accordance with Practice E94 or Method E142 and the 
types and severity levels of discontinuities considered shall be 
judged by Reference Radiographs E446, or Reference Radio­
graphs E186. The extent of examination and the basis for 
acceptance shall be subject to agreement between the manu­
facturer and the purchaser. A specification which may be used 
as a basis for such agreement is "Quality Standard for Steel 
Castings for Valves, Flanges and Fittings and Other Piping 
1074 