SA-353/SA-353M ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy Steel, Double-Normalized and 
Tempered 9 °/o Nickel 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers double-normalized and tem­
pered 9 % nickel steel plates intended paiticularly for welded 
pressure vessels for cryogenic service. 
1.2 Plates produced under this specification are subject to 
impact testing at -320°F [-195°C] or at such other tempera­
tures as are agreed upon. 
1.3 The maximum thickness of plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the material to meet the specific mechanical 
property requirements. 
1.4 This material is susceptible to magnetization. Use of 
magnets in handling after heat treatment should be avoided if 
residual magnetism would be detrimental to subsequent fabri­
cation or service. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
ai·e to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system ai·e not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. • 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/ A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering infom1ation. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/A20M. 
554 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Manufacture 
4.1 Steelmaking Practice-The steel shall be killed and 
shall conform to the fine austenitic grain size requirement of 
Specification A20/ A20M. 
5. Heat Treatment 
5.1 All plates shall be heat treated in accordance with 5.2. 
Shell plates and other parts, including heads and reinforcing 