ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/A568M) 
and the second lead is attached to the etch pad. Although the 
current may be turned on at this time, caution should be taken 
not to lay the pad on the sheet blank as it will arc. It is 
advisable to refrain from touching the metal of the etch pad and 
the grounded sheet blank. 
X4.3.7 The stencil is placed with the plastic coating against 
the sheet surface in the area to be etched. Wetting the stencil 
with a minimum amount of electrolyte will assist in smoothing 
out the wrinkles and gives a more uniform etch. The etch pad 
is now positioned on the stencil and the current turned on, if it 
is not already on. Apply suitable pressure to the pad. Only the 
minimum time necessary to produce a clear etched pattern 
should be used. The etching time will vary with the amperage 
available from the power source and the stencil area, as well as 
the pad area in contact with the stencil. Rocker-type etch pads 
give good prints and require less amperage than flat-surfaced 
pads. Excessive current causes stencil damage. 
X4.3.8 The etching solution activates the surface of the 
metal and may cause rusting unless it is inhibited. After the 
desired area has been etched, the blank should be wiped or 
rinsed, dried, and neutralized. 
X4.3.9 The etched blank is now ready for forming. The 
lubricants and press conditions should simulate production 
situations. If a sequence of operations is used in forming a part, 
it is desirable to etch sufficient blanks so that each operation 
can be studied. 
X4.4 Measurement of Strain After Forming 
X4.4.1 After forming, the circles are generally distorted into 
elliptical shapes (Fig. X4.2). These ellipses have major and 
minor strain axes. The major strain (e 1 ) is always defined to be 
the direction in which the greatest positive strain has occurred 
without regard to original blank edges or the sheet rolling 
direction. The minor strain (e 2 ) is defined to be 90° to the major 
strain direction. 
X4.4.2 There are several methods for determining the major 
and minor strains of the formed panel. Typical tools are a pair 
of dividers and a scale ruled in 0.5 mm. For sharp radii, a thin 
plastic scale that can follow the contour of the stamping can be 
used to determine the dimensions of the ellipses. (Scales are 
available to read the percent strain directly.) 
MINOR 
srAAtlll 
TliNSlON • COMPRIISSU)N 
, ' I \ 
I 1 
: / \ , 
\ I 
""'_..,...,.,,"' 
MINOR 
$TAAIN 
~ 
, 
TSNSION • TI!NSION 
FIG. X4.2 Major and Minor Strain Axes 
X4.5 Evaluation of Strain Measurements 
X4.5.1 The e 1 strain is always positive while the e 2 strain 
may be zero, positive, or negative, as indicated on the forming 
limit curve chart (Fig. X4.1). The maximum e 1 and associated 
e 2 values measured in critical areas on the formed part are 
plotted on the graph paper containing the forming limit curve 
by locating the point of intersections of the e 1 , e 2 strains. 
X4.5.2 If this point is on or below the "safety band" of the 
forming limit curve, the strain should not cause breakage. 
Points further below the curve indicate that a less ductile 
material of a lower grade may be applied. Points above the 
"safety band" show that fabrication has induced strains that 
could result in breakage. Therefore, in evaluation on stampings 
exhibiting these strains, efforts should be made to provide an 
e 1 , e 2 strain combination that would lie on or below the "safety 
band" of the forming limit curve. A different e 1 , e 2 strain 
combination can be obtained through changes of one or more 
of the forming variables such as die conditions, · lubricants, 
blank size, thickness, or material grade. It should be noted at 
this time that these conclusions are derived from a reference 
base being the steel "quality" used to fabricate the grid 
stamping. 
X4.5.3 When attempting to change the relationship of e 1 
and e 2 strains, it should be noted that on the forming limit curve 
the most severe condition for a given e 1 strain is at O % e 2 
strain. This means the metal works best when it is allowed to 
deform in two dimensions, e 1 and e 2 , rather than being 
restricted in one dimension. A change in e 2 to decrease the 
severity can be made by changing one of the previously 
mentioned forming variables of the die design, for example, 
improving lubrication on the tension-tension side will increase 
e 2 and decrease the severity. 
X4.5.4 In addition to the forming limit curve, the e 1 e 2 strain 
measurements may be used to evaluate the material require­
ments on the basis of strain gradients, as illustrated in Fig. 
X4.3, or by plotting contours of equivalent strain levels on the 
1003 
(l)@im: APPROXIMATE LOCATION 
Of ETCHED ClRO.l:!S 
CftOSSSt!Cm>N OF l!TCHED PANEL 
FIG. X4.3 Graph of Major Strains and Critical Major Strains and 
Cross Section of Etched Panel 