ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-420 /SA-420M 
17. Rejection and Rehearing 
17 .1 Material that fails to conform to the requirements of 
this specification shall be rejected. Rejection should be re­
ported to the producer or supplier promptly and in writing. In 
case of dissatisfaction with the results of the test, the producer 
or supplier shall make claim for a rehearing. 
17 .2 Fittings that develop defects in shop working or 
application operations shall be rejected. Upon rejection, the 
manufacturer shall be notified promptly in writing. 
18. Certification 
18.1 Test reports are required for all fittings covered by this 
specification. Each test report shall meet the requirements for 
certification in Specification A960/ A960M as well as include 
the following information specific to this specification: 
18.1.1 Chemical analysis results, Section 8 (Table 1), re­
ported results shall be to the same number of significant figures 
as the limits specified in Table 1 for that element, 
18.1.2 Tensile property results, Section 9 (Table 3) report 
yield strength and tensile strength in ksi [MPa] and elongation 
in percent, and tensile test orientation, 
18.1.3 Impact test results, Section 10 (Table 4 and Table 5), 
18.1.4 Type heat treatment, Section 7, 
18.1.5 Statement regarding radiographic or ultrasonic ex­
amination of welds, Section 15, and 
18.1.6 Any supplementary testing required by the purchase 
order. 
19. Product Marking 
19 .1 In addition to marking requirements of Specification 
A960/ A960M, the following additional marking requirements 
shall apply: 
19.1.1 Fittings shall be marked by any method which will 
identify the fittings and not result in sharp discontinuities. 
Stamping, when used, shall be done with blunt-nosed continu­
ous or blunt-nosed interrupted dot stamps. 
19.1.2 When agreed upon between the purchaser and 
producer, and specified in the order, the markings shall be 
painted or stenciled on the fitting or stamped on a metal or 
plastic tag which shall be securely attached to the fitting. 
19.1.3 Fittings containing welds that have been ultrasoni­
cally examined instead of radiography shall be marked U after 
heat identity. 
19.1.4 Threaded or socket welding fittings shall be marked 
with the pressure class. Plugs and bushings furnished to ASME 
B 16.11 requirements are not required to be marked. 
19.1.5 The impact test temperature shall also be shown if it 
is different from the standard test temperature specified in 
Table 6, for example: WPL-6-60 or WPL3-176. 
19.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 19.1, 
bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental identification 
method. The purchaser may specify in the order a specific bar 
coding system to be used. The bar coding system, if applied at 
the discretion of the supplier, should be consistent with one of 
the published industry standards for bar coding. If used on 
small fittings, the bar code may be applied to the box or a 
substantially applied tag. 
20. Keywords 
20.1 pipe fittings; piping applications; pressure containing 
parts; pressure vessel service; temperature service applications, 
low 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the supplementary requirements appearing in Specification A960/A960M may be 
included in the order or contract. When so included, a supplementary requirement shall have the same 
force as if it were in the body of the specification. Supplementary requirement details not fully 
described shall be agreed upon between the purchaser and the supplier. 
Sl. ASME Section III Construction 
S 1.1 Products welded with filler metal furnished under this 
specification that are intended for application under the rules of 
Section III of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code shall 
be manufactured by holders of the appropriate ASME Certifi­
cate of Authorization and Certification Mark. The product is 
subject to all applicable requirements of Section III, including 
welding, heat treatment, nondestructive examination, autho­
rized inspection at the point of manufacture, and application of 
the Certification Mark. 
S 1.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report form, 
signed by an Authorized Nuclear Inspector, and a material test 
report shall be furnished for each lot of pipe. 
705 
S 1.3 The material used to fabricate the pipe fitting shall 
conform to the applicable SA specification in ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code, Section II. The welded joints shall be 
full penetration butt welds as obtained by double welding or by 
other means that will obtain the same quality of deposited weld 
metal on the inside and outside. Welds using metal backing 
strips that remain in place are prohibited. 
S 1.4 Each piece of pipe fitting shall be so marked as to 
identify each such piece of pipe fitting with the lot and the 
material test report. 