ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-480/SA-480M (ASTM A480/A480M) 
9. Permitted Variations in Dimensions and Weight 
9.1 Sheet, strip, and plate shall conform to the permitted 
variations in thickness, width, length and flatness, and other 
properties when specified, as listed in Annex A2 and Annex A3 
for A480 and A480M respectively, for the ordered product 
form, or as agreed upon by seller and user and specified in the 
purchase order. 
10. Workmanship 
10.1 The material shall be of uniform quality consistent 
with good manufacturing and inspection practices. The steel 
shall have no imperfections of a nature or degree, for the type 
and quality ordered, that will adversely affect the stamping, 
forming, machining, or fabrication of finished parts. 
10.2 Sheet, Strip, and Plate-For sheet and strip, restricted 
only to material ordered to have a No. 1 finish in accordance 
with 11.1.1 and 12.1.1 respectively, and for plate restricted to 
material ordered to hot-rolled and annealed or hot-rolled, 
annealed, and pickle finish in accordance with 13 .1.1 and 
13.1.2 respectively, it is permitted to grind to remove surface 
imperfections, provided such grinding does not reduce the 
thickness or width at any point beyond the permissible varia­
tions in dimensions. An iron free abrasive wheel shall be used 
for such grinding and shall be operated at a speed ample to 
ensure that defective areas are cleanly cut out. 
11. Finish for Sheet 
11.1 The types of finish available on sheet products are: 
11.1.1 No. 1 Finish-Hot-rolled, annealed, and descaled. 
11.1.2 No. 2D Finish-Cold-rolled, dull finish. 
11.1.3 No. 2B Finish-Cold-rolled, bright finish. 
11.1.3 .1 . Bright Annealed Finish-A bright cold-rolled finish 
retained by final annealing in a controlled atmosphere furnace. 
11.1.4 No. 3 Finish-Intermediate polished finish, one or 
both sides. 
11. 1.5 No. 4 Finish-General purpose polished finish, one 
or both sides. 
11.1.6 No. 6 Finish-Dull satin finish, Tampico brushed, 
one or both sides. 
11.1.7 No. 7 Finish-High luster finish. 
11.1.8 No. 8 Finish-Mirror finish. 
11.1.9 TR Finish-Cold-worked to obtain specified proper­
ties. 
Norn 3-Explanation of Sheet Finishes: 
No. I-Commonly referred to as hot-rolled annealed and pickled or 
descaled. This is a dull, nonreflective finish. 
No. 2D-A smooth, nonreflective cold-rolled annealed and pickled or 
descaled finish. This nondirectional finish is favorable for retention of 
lubricants in deep drawing applications. 
No. 2B-A smooth, moderately reflective cold-rolled annealed and 
pickled or descaled finish typically produced by imparting a final light 
cold-rolled pass using polished rolls. This general-purpose finish is more 
readily polished than No. 1 or 2D finishes. Product with 2B finish is 
normally supplied in the annealed plus lightly cold-rolled condition unless 
a tensile-rolled product is specified. 
Bright Annealed Finish-A smooth, bright, reflective finish typically 
produced by cold rolling followed by annealing in a protective atmosphere 
so as to prevent oxidation and scaling during annealing. 
No. 3-A linearly textured finish that may be produced by either 
mechanical polishing or rolling. Average surface roughness (R,,) may 
generally be up to 40 µin. A skilled operator can generally blend this 
finish. Surface roughness measurements differ with different instruments, 
laboratories, and operators. There may also be overlap in measurements of 
surface roughness for both Nos. 3 and 4 finishes. 
No. 4-A linearly textured finish that may be produced by either 
mechanical polishing or rolling. Average surface roughness (R.) may 
generally be up to 25 µin. A skilled operator can generally blend this 
finish. Surface roughness measurements differ with different instruments, 
laboratories, and operators. There may also be overlap in measurements of 
surface roughness for both Nos. 3 and 4 finishes. 
No. 6-This finish has a soft, satin appearance typically produced by 
tampico brushing a No. 4 finish. 
No. 7-Has a high degree of reflectivity. It is produced by buffing a 
finely ground surface, but the grit lines are not removed. It is chiefly used 
for architectural or ornamental purposes. 
No. 8-This is a highly reflective, smooth finish typically produced by 
polishing with successively finer grit abrasives, then buffing. Typically, 
very faint buff of polish lines may still be visible on the final product. 
Blending after part assembly may be done with buffing. 
TR Finish-The finish resulting from the cold-rolling of an annealed 
and descaled or bright annealed product to obtain mechanical properties 
higher than that of the annealed condition. Appearance will vary depend­
ing upon the starting finish, amount of cold work, and the alloy. 
Architectural Finishes-Sometimes described as a No. 5 finish, these 
are a separate category and may be negotiated between buyer and seller, 
as there are many techniques and finish variations available throughout the 
world. 
11.1.10 Architectural finish, No. 5, or other proprietary 
names are special finishes. 
11.1.11 Note 3 is not meant to be restrictive or to be used as 
a basis for rejection but is intended to give general guidelines. 
Various production methods may be used to obtain these 
finishes. 
11.1.12 Sheets can be produced with one or two sides 
polished. When polished on one side only, it is permitted to 
rough grind the other side in order to obtain the necessary 
flatness. 
12. Finish for Strip 
12.1 The various types of finish procurable on cold-rolled 
strip products are: 
12.1.1 No. 1 Finish-Cold-rolled to specified thickness, 
annealed, and descaled. 
12.1.2 No. 2 Finish-Same as No. 1 finish, followed by a 
final light cold-roll pass, generally on highly polished rolls. 
12.1.3 Bright Annealed Finish-A bright cold-rolled finish 
retained by final annealing in a controlled atmosphere furnace. 
12.1.4 TR Finish-Cold-worked to obtain specified proper­
ties. 
12.1.5 Polished Finish-Stainless steel strip is also avail­
able in polished finishes such as Nos. 3 and 4, which are 
explained in Note 3. 
789 
Norn 4--Explanation of Strip Finishes: 
No. I-Appearance of this finish varies from dull gray matte finish to 
a fairly reflective surface, depending largely upon composition. This finish 
is used for severely drawn or formed parts, as well as for applications 
where the brighter No. 2 finish is not required, such as parts for heat 
resistance .. 
No. 2-This finish has a smoother and more reflective surface, the 
appearance of which varies with composition. This is a general purpose 
finish, widely used for household and automotive trim, tableware, utensils, 
trays, and so forth. 
Bright Annealed Finish-See Note 3. 
TR Finish-See Note 3. 