ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
2. Referenced Documents 
2. l ASTM Standards: 
A623 Specification for Tin Mill Products, General Require­
ments 
A623M Specification for Tin Mill Products, General Re­
quirements [Metric] 
A833 Test Method for Indentation Hardness of Metallic 
Materials by Comparison Hardness Testers 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
A956/A956M Test Method for Leeb Hardness Testing of 
Steel Products 
Al038 Test Method for Portable Hardness Testing by the 
Ultrasonic Contact Impedance Method 
Al058 Test Methods for Mechanical Testing of Steel 
Products-Metric 
Al061/Al061M Test Methods for Testing Multi-Wire Steel 
Prestressing Strand 
E4 Practices for Force Calibration and Verification of Test­
ing Machines 
E6 Terminology Relating to Methods of Mechanical Testing 
E8/E8M Test Methods for Tension Testing of Metallic Ma­
terials 
ElO Test Method for Brinell Hardness of Metallic Materials 
E18 Test Methods for Rockwell Hardness of Metallic Ma­
terials 
E23 Test Methods for Notched Bar Impact Testing of Me­
tallic Materials 
E29 Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to 
Determine Conformance with Specifications 
E83 Practice for Verification and Classification of Exten­
someter Systems 
Ell0 Test Method for Rockwell and Brinell Hardness of 
Metallic Materials by Portable Hardness Testers 
E190 Test Method for Guided Bend Test for Ductility of 
Welds 
E290 Test Methods for Bend Testing of Material for Ductil­
ity 
2.2 ASME Document: 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, 
Division I, Part UG-8 
2.3 ISO Standard: 
ISO/IEC 17025 General Requirements for the Competence 
of Testing and Calibration Laboratories 
3. Terminology 
3.l Definitions: 
3.1.1 For definitions of terms pertaining to mechanical 
testing of steel products not otherwise listed in this section, 
reference should be made to Terminology E6 and Terminology 
A941. 
3.2 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.2. l longitudinal test, n-unless specifically defined 
otherwise, signifies that the lengthwise axis of the specimen is 
parallel to the direction of the greatest extension of the steel 
during rolling or forging. 
3.2.1.1 Discussion-The stress applied to a longitudinal 
tension test specimen is in the direction of the greatest 
extension, and the axis of the fold of a longitudinal bend test 
specimen is at right angles to the direction of greatest extension 
(see Fig. 1, Fig. 2a, and Fig. 2b). 
3.2.2 radial test, n-unless specifically defined otherwise, 
signifies that the lengthwise axis of the specimen is perpen­
dicular to the axis of the product and coincident with one of the 
radii of a circle drawn with a point on the axis of the product 
as a center (see Fig. 2a). 
3.2.3 tangential test, n-unless specifically defined 
otherwise, signifies that the lengthwise axis of the specimen 
perpendicular to a plane containing the axis of the product and 
tangent to a circle drawn with a point on the axis of the 
productas a center (see Fig. 2a, Fig. 2b, Fig. 2c, and Fig. 2d). 
3.2.4 transition temperature, n-for specification purposes, 
the transition temperature is the temperature at which the 
designated material test value equals or exceeds a specified 
minimum test value. 
3.2.4.1 Discussion-Some of the many definitions of tran­
sition temperature currently being used are: ( 1) the lowest 
temperature at which the specimen exhibits 100 % fibrous 
fracture, (2) the tei;nperature where the fracture shows a 50 % 
crystalline and a 50 % fibrous appearance, ( 3) the temperature 
corresponding to the energy value 50 % of the difference 
585 
FIG. 1 Relation of Test Coupons and Test Specimens to Rolling 
Direction or Extension (Applicable to General Wrought Products) 