'----' 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
specification writing where it is desirable to show equivalent 
elongation requirements for the several standard ASTM tension 
specimens covered in Test Methods A370, consideration must 
be given to the metallurgical effects dependent on the thickness 
of the material as processed. 
A7. TESTING MULTI-WIRE STRAND 
This annex has been replaced by Test Methods A1061/A1061M, and procedures for the tension testing of multi-wire 
strand for prestressed concrete have been integrated into the relevant product specifications. 
AS. ROUNDING OF TEST DATA 
AS.1 Application 
A8.1.1 This annex shall apply to rounding test data for the 
purpose of determining conformance to product specification 
requirements. 
A8.1.2 This annex shall apply only when rounding is not 
specified in the product specification. 
A8.1.3 Observed or calculated test results and records 
maintained by testing laboratories are not subject to this annex. 
AS.2 Method 
A8.2.1 Values shall be rounded in accordance with the rules 
of Practice E29 unless otherwise stated herein. 
A8.2.2 In the special case of rounding the number "5" when 
no additional numbers other than "O" follow the "5," rounding 
shall be in accordance with Practice E29 except where this 
would result in rejection of the product. 
A8.2.3 Requirements for rounding levels for determining 
product acceptance or rejection are given in Table A8.1. 
Specific reported test data values shall be rounded to Table 
A8.1 for determining product acceptance or rejection. 
A8.2.4 Table A8.l values are designed to provide unifor­
mity in determining conformance to product specification 
requirements and should be considered when rounding require­
ments are stated in product specifications. 
A8.2.5 When rounding requirements are neither stated in 
the product specification nor listed in Table A8.l, an observed 
or calculated value shall be rounded to the nearest unit in the 
last right hand digit used in expressing the specification 
requirement 
629 