SA-703/SA-703M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
10. Quality 
10.1 The surface of the casting shall be free of adhering 
sand, scale, cracks, and hot tears as determined by visual 
examination. Other surface discontinuities shall meet the visual 
acceptance standards specified in the order. Practice A802/ 
A802M or other visual standards may be used to define 
acceptable surface discontinuities and finish. Unacceptable 
visual surface discontinuities shall be removed and their 
removal verified by visual examination of the resultant cavi­
ties. 
10.2 The castings shall not be peened, plugged, or impreg­
nated to stop leaks or disguise rejectable indications. 
10.3 Internal chills and chaplets may be used in the manu­
facture of castings. However, the chills, chaplets, and affected 
cast material must be completely removed. 
11. Hydrostatic Tests 
11.1 Each casting shall be tested after machining to the 
hydrostatic shell test pressures prescribed in ANSI B16.5 for 
the applicable steel rating for which the casting is designed. 
Casting shall show no leaks. Castings ordered for working 
pressures other than those in the standard ANSI ratings, or 
those listed for which test pressures are not specified by ANSI 
B16.5, shall be tested at a pressure agreed upon between 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
11.2 It is realized that the foundry may be unable to perform 
the hydrostatic test prior to shipment, or that the purchaser may 
wish to defer testing until additional work or machining has 
been performed on the casting. Castings ordered in the rough 
state for final machining by the purchaser may be tested 
hydrostatically prior to shipment by the manufacturer at 
pressures to be agreed upon with the purchaser. However, the 
foundry is responsible for the satisfactory performance of the 
castings under the final test required in 11. 1. 
12. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
12.1 All castings shall be made in a workmanlike manner 
and shall conform to the dimensions on drawings furnished by 
the purchaser. When the pattern is supplied by the purchaser, 
the dimensions of the casting shall be as predicated by the 
pattern unless otherwise agreed upon. 
12.2 Machined welding ends shall be suitably protected 
against damage during shipping. 
13. Retests 
13.1 If a specimen is machined improperly or if flaws are 
revealed by machining or during testing, the specimen may be 
discarded and another substituted from the same heat. 
13.2 If the results of the mechanical tests for any heat, lot, 
or casting do not conform to the requirements specified, 
castings may be reheat treated and retested. When castings are 
reheat treated, they may not be re-austenitized more than three 
times without the approval of the purchaser. Testing after 
reheat treatment shall consist of the full number of specimens 
taken from locations complying with the specification or order. 
NoTE 1-Test Methods and Definitions A370, paragraph 4.4 and Test 
Methods A1058, paragraph 3.5 address retesting because of mechanical 
reasons such as failure of the test equipment. Test Methods and Definitions 
A370, paragraph 14.4.2 addresses retesting for reasons such as fracture 
outside of the middle half of the gauge length or at a punch mark. 
14. Inspection 
14.1 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector 
all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy that the material is 
being produced and furnished in accordance with the appli­
cable specification. Foundry inspection by the purchaser shall 
not interfere unnecessarily with the manufacturer's operations. 
All tests and inspections, with the exception of product 
analysis (5.2), shall be made at the place of manufacture unless 
otherwise agreed. 
15. Rejection and Rehearing 
15.1 Any rejection based on test reports shall be reported to 
the manufacturer within 30 days from the receipt of the test 
reports by the purchaser. 
15.2 Material that shows unacceptable discontinuities as 
determined by the acceptance standards specified in the order 
subsequent to its acceptance at the manufacturer's works will 
be rejected, and the manufacturer shall be notified within 
30 days after discovery of the rejectable condition. 
15.3 Samples that represent rejected material shall be pre­
served for two weeks from the date of transmission of the test 
report. In case of dissatisfaction with the results of the tests, the 
manufacturer may make claim for a rehearing within that time. 
16. Certification 
16.1 The manufacturer's certification shall be furnished to 
the purchaser stating that the material was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with the material 
specification (including year of issue) and was found to meet 
the requirements. When the purchaser imposes the require­
ments of this specification, the manufacturer is responsible for 
compliance with the specification requirements during the 
production and processing of the casting by themselves and 
any of their subcontractors. 
16.2 As applicable, the certification shall also include: 
16.2.1 Material specification and grade, 
16.2.2 Pattern number, 
16.2.3 Heat number or serial number traceable to a heat 
number, 
16.2.4 Chemical analysis of the heat, 
16.2.5 Mechanical property results required by the specifi­
cation and supplementary requirements specified in the pur­
chase order, 
16.2.6 Statement of satisfactory inspection, visual, and non-
destructive testing specified in the purchase order, 
16.2.7 Manufacturer's name, and 
16.2.8 Additional purchase order requirements. 
16.3 A signature is not required on the certification. 
However, the document shall clearly identify the organization 
submitting the certification. Notwithstanding the absence of a 
signature, the organization submitting the certification is re­
sponsible for its content. 
1156 