SA-834 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
9.3 When agreed upon between manufacturer and pur­
chaser, test specimens or unbroken test bars from the same lot 
shall be saved for a period of 3 months after date of the test 
report. 
9.4 When unbroken test bars are reprocessed with castings 
for rehearing, test specimens from these bars shall be saved, as 
described in 9.3. 
9.5 The purchaser reserves the right to perform any inspec­
tions set forth in the specification where such inspections are 
deemed necessary to assure that supplies and services conform 
to the prescribed requirements. 
10. Repair 
10.1 Any repair shall be made in accordance with the 
requirements of the individual specification using procedures 
qualified by the manufacturer for the type of repair involved. 
11. Rejection and Rehearing 
11.1 Castings which fail to conform to the requirements 
specified when inspected or tested by the purchaser or his agent 
may be rejected. Rejection shall be reported to the manufac­
turer or supplier promptly and in writing. In case of dissatis­
faction with the test results, the manufacturer or supplier may 
make claim for a rehearing. 
12. Packaging and Package Marking 
12.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, cleaning, preservation, and packaging of castings shall 
be in accordance with the manufacturer's commercial practice. 
Packing and marking shall also be adequate to identify the 
contents and to ensure acceptance and safe delivery by the 
carrier for the mode of transportation employed. 
12.2 Government Procurement-When specified in the con­
tract or purchase order, marking for shipment shall be in 
accordance with the requirements of Fed. Std. No. 123 for civil 
agencies and MIL-STD-129 for military activities. 
13. Quality Assurance 
13.1 The surface of the casting shall be free of adhering 
sand, scale, cracks, and hot tears as determined by visual 
examination. Other surface discontinuities shall meet the visual 
acceptance standards specified in the order. Visual Practice 
A802/ A802M or other visual standards may be used to define 
acceptable surface discontinuities and finish. Unacceptable 
visual surface discontinuities shall be removed and their 
removal verified by visual examination of the resultant cavi­
ties. 
13.2 When additional inspection is desired, Supplementary 
Requirements Sl, S2, or S3 may be specified. 
14. Keywords 
14.1 chemical composition; common requirements; gen­
eral industry; inspection; iron castings; ordering information; 
packaging; quality assurance; repair; sampling; tensile require­
ments; terminology; workmanship 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details of the 
supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. The specified 
tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
Sl. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S 1. 1 Castings shall be examined for surface discontinuities 
by magnetic particle examination. The examination shall be in 
accordance with Practice B709. The extent of examination and 
the basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
S2. Radiographic Examination 
S2.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of X-rays or gamma rays. The procedure shall be in 
accordance with Guide B94, and types and degrees of discon­
tinuities considered shall be judged by Reference Radiographs 
B689 and B802. The extent of examination and basis for 
acceptance shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and 
purchaser. 
S3. Liquid Penetrant Examination 
S3.1 Castings shall be examined for surface discontinuities 
by means of liquid penetrant examination. The examination 
shall be in accordance with Practice B165. Areas to be 
inspected, methods and types of liquid penetrants to be used, 
developing procedure, and basis for acceptance shall be agreed 
upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S4. Certification 
S4.1 The manufacturer's certification shall be furnished to 
the purchaser stating that the material was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with the material 
specification, including the year date, and was found to meet 
the requirements. Additionally, the certification shall include 
for each lot the results of all tests required by the material 
specification and any supplementary or additional requirements 
imposed by the purchase order. 
S4.2 A signature is not required on the certification or test 
report. However, the document shall clearly identify the 
organization submitting the certification and the authorized 
agent of the manufacturer who certified the test results. 
Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the organization 
submitting the certification is responsible for its content. 
S4.3 The test report shall be furnished within 5 working 
days of shipment of the castings. 
1348 