SA-587 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
works that concern the manufacture of the pipe ordered. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector, without charge, all 
reasonable facilities to satisfy the inspector that the material is 
being furnished in accordance with this specification. All tests 
and inspection shall be made prior to shipment. 
14.2 When inspection at the place of manufacture has been 
waived by customer, the manufacturer shall furnish a statement 
that the material has been tested and has met all the require­
ments of this specification. A certificate or report shall be made 
available to customer when all the requirements of this 
specification have been met. When Supplementary Require­
ment S 1 is furnished, certificates or reports furnished shall bear 
the notation "S-1." 
15. Rejection 
15.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of this specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
15.2 Pipe found in fabrication or in installation to be 
unsuitable for the intended use, under the scope and require­
ments of this specification, may be set aside and the manufac­
turer notified. Such pipe shall be subject to mutual investiga­
tion as to the nature and severity of the deficiency and the 
forming or installation, or both, conditions involved. Disposi­
tion shall be a matter for agreement. 
16. Product Marking 
16.1 Each length of pipe NPS 1 ½ and larger shall be legibly 
marked by either stenciling or stenciling and light die marking. 
The die marking shall include the manufacturer's logo or 
symbol and the stenciling shall include the name or brand of 
the manufacturer, size, heat number, and the specification 
number. Such marking shall be applied starting within 8 in. 
(203 mm) of the end of each length. 
16.2 For NPS under 1 ½ the markings prescribed in 16.1 
may be applied to tags and securely attached to the bundle, 
bale, or other unit, prepared for shipment. 
16.3 A tag shall be securely attached to each bundle of pipe 
shipped indicating the name of the manufacturer, size, wall 
thickness, length, and specification. 
16.4 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 16.1, 
16.2, and 16.3, bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental 
identification method. The purchaser may specify in the order 
a specific bar coding system to be used. 
17. Packaging 
17 .1 The manufacturer, at his option, will box, crate, carton, 
or package in secured lifts, or bundle to ensure safe delivery. 
Special packaging requiring extra operations other than those 
normally used by the manufacturer must be specified on the 
order. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the supplementary requirements described below may be included in the purchaser's 
order or contract. When so included, a supplementary requirement shall have the same force as if it 
were in the body of the specification. Supplementary requirements details not fully described shall be 
agreed upon between the purchaser and the supplier, but shall not negate any of the requirements in 
the body of the specification. 
Sl. Hydrostatic Testing 
S1.1 Hydrostatic testing shall be in accordance with Speci­
fication A530/A530M. When this supplement is furnished the 
pipe shall be marked "S-1." 
S2. Galvanizing 
S2.1 Galvanizing shall be in accordance with Specification 
A53/A53M, except that the rate of application shall be 1.3 
minimum to 1.7 maximum oz per f. 
S3. Surface Coatings 
S3.1 All surfaces shall be coated, the exterior with a hard 
drying lacquer, and the interior with a suitable rust inhibitor. 
1028 