ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 SA-859/SA-859M (ASTM A859/A859M) 
8. Repair Welding 
8.1 Repair welding of forgings shall be permitted only with 
the approval of the purchaser. 
8.2 Preparation for repair welding shall include inspection 
to ensure complete removal of the defect. 
8.3 Repairs shall be made using welding procedures quali­
fied in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Code Section IX and repair welding shall be done by welders 
or welding operators meeting the qualification requirements of 
that code. 
9. Test Reports 
9 .1 A test report shall be furnished and shall include 
certification that the material was manufactured and tested in 
accordance with this specification. The report shall include the 
results of all required tests, including heat analysis, mechanical 
test results, the type of heat treatment, and the test sampling 
method. 
10. Keywords 
10.1 precipitation hardening steel; pressure containing 
parts; pressure vessel service; steel forgings-alloy 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified by the 
purchaser on the order. Details of these supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon by the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
Sl. Simulated Post-Weld Heat Treatment of Mechanical 
Test Coupons 
S 1.1 All test coupons shall be subjected to single or multiple 
heat treatments at subcritical temperatures prior to testing. 
Such treatments are intended to simulate post-weld or other 
thermal treatments to which the forgings will be subjected 
during subsequent fabrication. The purchaser shall furnish the 
manufacturer with details of the desired heat treatment for the 
test coupons, including temperatures, times, and cooling rates. 
S2. Ultrasonic Examination 
S2.1 The forgings shall be ultrasonically examined in ac­
cordance with the procedures of Practice A388/A388M. 
S2. l.1 Longitudinal Wave Test: 
S2. l. l.1 Unless otherwise specified, the back-reflection 
method of tuning shall be used in accordance with 7 .2.2.1 of 
Practice A388/A388M. 
S2. l. l.2 In addition to the reportable conditions of Section 
8 of Practice A388/ A388M, indications exceeding the resultant 
back reflection shall be recorded. 
S2. l. l.3 The following conditions are subject to rejection: 
(a) Complete loss of back reflection accompanied by an 
indication of a discontinuity. For this purpose, a back reflection 
less than 5 % of full screen height shall be considered complete 
loss of back reflection. 
(b) An indication equal in amplitude to that of the back 
reflection established in an indication-free portion of the 
forging. 
S2. l.2 Angle Beam Test: 
S2.l.2.1 Calibration notches, calibration reference, and 
method of scanning shall be in accordance with 7 .3 of Practice 
A388/A388M. 
S2. l.2.2 A forging that contains a discontinuity that results 
in an indication exceeding the amplitude of the reference line 
is subject to rejection. 
S2.l.3 The report of the ultrasonic examination shall be in 
compliance with Section 9 of Practice A388/ A388M. 
S2.1.4 Additional nondestructive examination or trepanning 
may be employed to resolve questions of interpretation of 
ultrasonic indications. The manufacturer shall accept respon­
sibility for injurious conditions that will not be removed in final 
machining. 
S3. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S3.l Each forging shall be examined by magnetic particle 
methods described in Practice A275/A275M. Acceptance stan­
dards shall be specified by the purchaser. 
S3.2 Alternatively the purchaser may specify that Supple­
mentary Requirement S18 of Specification A788 shall be used 
as the basis for the magnetic particle examination. 
S4. Charpy V-Notch Impact Transition Curve 
S4. l Sufficient impact test shall be made from the forging 
test material to establish a temperature/absorbed-energy curve. 
The test temperature range shall be wide enough to establish 
the upper and lower shelf foot-pound-force [Joule] energies, 
with sufficient testing at intermediate temperatures to permit 
plotting a reasonably smooth curve. 
S5. Additional Charpy V-Notch Test Data 
S5.l The percent shear fracture and mils [mm] of lateral 
expansion shall be reported for each specimen tested. 
S6. Charpy V-Notch Test 
S6.1 For Grade A, Class 1 or 2 forgings the specified test 
temperature for the Charpy V-Notch tests required in Section 6 
of this specification shall be a temperature lower than -50 °F 
[-45 °C]. The specified test temperature shall be stated in the 
order. 
S6.2 The charpy impact test temperature used shall be 
included in the forging certification and marking. 
S7. Drop-Weight Test 
S7.l Drop-weight tests shall be conducted in accordance 
with Test Method E208. The fracture plane of the specimen 
shall coincide with the location required for other mechanical 
1369 