SA-268/SA-268M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Seamless and Welded Ferritic and Martensitic Stainless 
Steel Tubing for General Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers a number of grades of 
nominal-wall-thickness, stainless steel tubing for general 
corrosion-resisting and high-temperature service. Most of these 
grades are commonly known as the "straight-chromium" types 
and are characterized by being ferromagnetic. Two of these 
grades, TP410 and UNS S 41500 (Table 1), are amenable to 
hardening by heat treatment, and the high-chromium, ferritic 
alloys are sensitive to notch-brittleness on slow cooling to 
ordinary temperatures. These features should be recognized in 
the use of these materials. 
1.2 An optional supplementary requirement is provided, and 
when desired, shall be so stated in the order. 
1.3 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. 
1.4 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
400 
A480/A480M Specification for General Requirements for 
Flat-Rolled Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip 
A763 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Ferritic Stainless Steels 
Al016/A1016M Specification for General Requirements for 
Ferritic Alloy Steel, Austenitic Alloy Steel, and Stainless 
Steel Tubes 
E213 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of Metal Pipe and 
Tubing 
E273 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of the Weld Zone of 
Welded Pipe and Tubing 
3. Terminology 
3.l Lot Definitions: 
3.1.1 For flange and flaring requirements, the term lot 
applies to all tubes, prior to cutting, of the same nominal size 
and wall thickness that are produced from the same heat of 
steel. If final heat treatment is in a batch-type furnace, a lot 
shall include only those tubes of the same size and from the 
same heat that are heat treated in the same furnace charge. If 
the final heat treatment is in a continuous furnace, the number 
of tubes of the same size and from the same heat in a lot shall 
be determined from the size of the tubes as given in Table 2. 
3 .1.2 For tensile and hardness test requirements, the term lot 
applies to all tubes, prior to cutting, of the same nominal 
diameter and wall thickness that are produced from the same 
heat of steel. If final heat treatment is in a batch-type furnace, 
a lot shall include only those tubes of the same size and the 
same heat that are heat treated in the same furnace charge. If 
the final heat treatment is in a continuous furnace, a lot shall 