ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-439 /SA-439M 
in. 
mm 
½ 
13 
1\1 .. ) 2 Rad. 
l-1"-I 
Metric Equivalents 
1 1½ 
25 38 
T 
1" 2-2 
l" 1-2 
_j_ 
2½ 
63 
Norn 1-The length of the keel block shall be 6 in. [150 mm]. 
FIG. 2 Keel Block for Test Coupons 
that are used to produce the castings. These test specimens 
shall be made to the dimensions shown in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 of 
Test Methods and Definitions A370. 
9.5 Test bars representing the furnace heat of iron shall be 
cast from the same ladle of metal as soon as practicable after 
the last iron is poured to produce castings, unless otherwise 
specified. Test bars shall be left in the mold until they have 
cooled to less than 930 °F [500 °C]; cooling to a black 
appearance is acceptable if the manufacturer has established 
that such black appearance corresponds to a temperature less 
than 930 °F [500 °C]. 
10. Number of Tests 
10.1 Test bars shall be poured from each ladle treated with 
nodularizing agent, unless otherwise specified. 
10.2 The number of test bars cast shall be agreed upon by 
the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
10.3 One tension test shall be made from sections cut from 
the test bars as shown in Fig. 4. If any tension test shows 
obvious foundry or machining defects, another specimen shall 
be cut from the same test bar or from another test bar 
representing the same metal. If the retest specimen fails to 
conform to this specification, the castings they represent shall 
be rejected. 
11. Tension Test Specimens 
11.1 The standard round tension test specimen with 2-in. 
[50-rnm] gauge length shown in Fig. 5 shall be used, except 
when the ½-in. [13-mm] "Y" block is used or when specimens 
are cut from castings under ¾-in. [20-rnm] thickness. In these 
cases, either of the test specimens shown in Fig. 6 shall be 
satisfactory. 
11.2 By agreement between the manufacturer and the 
purchaser, tension test specimens may be cut directly from 
centrifugal or other permanent mold castings. The location and 
orientation of such tension test specimens cut from castings 
shall be specified as agreed upon by the manufacturer and the 
purchaser. 
12. Additional Tests 
12.1 Hydrostatic tests for pressure castings, radiography 
standards, fracture tests, microstructure standards, or any other 
special tests may be set up by mutual agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
13. Responsibility for Inspection 
13.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of 
all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as 
otherwise specified in the contract or order, the manufacturer 
may use their own or any other facilities suitable for the 
performance of the inspection requirements specified herein, 
unless disapproved by the purchaser. The purchaser reserves 
the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the 
specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to 
ensure supplies and services conform to prescribed require­
ments. 
14. Certification 
14.1 A certification shall be made the basis of acceptance of 
the material. This shall consist of a copy of the manufacturer's 
test report or a statement by the supplier, accompanied by a 
copy of the test results that the material has been tested and 
inspected in accordance with the provisions of this specifica­
tion. Each certification so furnished shall be signed by an 
authorized agent of the supplier or manufacturer. 
15. Packaging and Package Marking 
15.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, preservation and packaging of casting shall be in 
accordance with the manufacturer's commercial practice. 
Packing and marking shall also be adequate to ensure accep­
tance and safe delivery by the carrier for the mode of 
transportation employed. 
725 
16. Keywords 
16.1 austenitic; corrosion resistant; ductile iron; mechanical 
properties; nodular iron; tensile strength; yield strength 