SA-4 79 /SA-4 79M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following may be made requirements when the purchaser specifies them to be applicable. 
St. Materials for High-temperature Service 
Sl.1 Unless an H grade has been ordered, this supplemen­
tary requirement shall be specified for ASME Code applica­
tions for service above 1000 °F [540 °C]. 
Sl.2 The user is permitted to use an austenitic stainless steel 
as the corresponding H grade when the material meets all 
requirements of the H grade including chemistry, annealing 
temperature, and grain size (see Section 6). 
Sl.3 The user is permitted to use an L grade austenitic 
stainless steel for service above 1000 °F [540 °C], subject to 
the applicable allowable stress table of the ASME Code, when 
the material meets all requirements of this specification and the 
grain size is ASTM No. 7 or coarser as determined in 
accordance with Test Methods El12. The grain size shall be 
reported on a Certified Test Report. 
S2. Corrosion Tests 
S2.1 Intergranular corrosion tests shall be performed by the 
manufacturer on sensitized specimens of Types 304L, 316L, 
321, 347, and 348, and for the other austenitic grades, on 
specimens representative of the as-shipped condition. All 
austenitic stainless steels shall be capable of passing inter­
granular corrosion tests in the as-shipped condition. Tests shall 
be performed in accordance with Practice E of Practices A262. 
S3. Product Analysis 
S3.1 An analysis shall be made by the manufacturer on a 
sample from one bar in each lot as defined in Specification 
A484/A484M. The analysis shall meet the requirements of 
Table 1. In the event of failure, the lot represented shall be 
rejected except that, at the option of the manufacturer, each bar 
in the lot may be tested for acceptance. Product analysis 
tolerance provisions do not apply. 
S4. Material for High Cycle Fatigue Service 
S4.1 The mechanical properties of bars furnished in lengths 
under 20 ft [6 m] shall be determined by testing one end of 
each bar. Bars furnished in lengths of 20 ft [6 m] and over shall 
be tested at each end. 
S5. Material for Optimum Resistance to Stress Corrosion 
Cracking 
S5.1 This supplementary requirement is to be referenced 
when austenitic stainless steels are to be purchased with 
solution-annealing as the final operation and with no subse­
quent cold drawing permitted. Straightening is permitted as a 
final operation to meet the straightness requirements of Speci­
fication A484/A484M unless specifically prohibited by the 
purchaser. 
S6. Demonstration of the Abse.nce of Detrimental Interme­
tallic Phase in Austenitic and Austenitic-Ferritic (Du­
plex) Grades 
S6.1 This supplementary requirement is to be referenced 
when the austenitic or duplex stainless steels are to be 
purchased with testing to demonstrate the absence of detrimen­
tal intermetallic phases that can have negative effects on 
mechanical properties or corrosion resistance of the material. 
The test method(s), reporting requirements, and acceptance 
criteria shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser 
in the purchase agreement. 
APPENDIX 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. RATIONALE REGARDING DE]flNITION OF SOLUTION ANNEALING 
Xl. 1 It is generally recognized that austenitic stainless 
steels are solution annealed by heating to a temperature that 
dissolves (takes into solution) chromium carbides and quench­
ing rapidly so that the chromium carbides will not precipitate 
in the . grain boundaries, which could cause susceptibility to 
intergranular corrosion in a critically corrosive environment. 
Thus, solution annealing also can be accomplished for non­
stabilized grades by taking advantage of hot rolling tempera­
tures (which always exceed solution annealing temperature 
requirements), maintaining hot rolling finishing temperatures 
well above minimum solution annealing requirements, and 
immediately quenching integral with hot rolling. Stabilized 
grades (with columbium or titanium added) cannot be handled 
782 
this way, since they would become destabilized due to colum­
bium or titanium carbide solution, without subsequent reheat­
ing. 
Xl.2 For Boiler Code applications involving temperatures 
at which optimum resistance to creep is desired, the larger 
grain size of material solution annealed by reheating is 
generally desired. For that reason, a minimum grain size has 
been required of the H grades ( created for optimum elevated 
temperature properties), and a mandatory grain size test and 
report has been added for the non- H grades so that the 
information is available for those desiring to reclassify a non-H 
grade to H grade. 