ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
IV-700 REQUIRED SAMPLING 
For all mechanical properties, data shall be provided 
over the required range of test temperatures from at least 
three heats of material meeting all of the requirements of 
the applicable specifications. Data submitted on three 
heats of one wrought product form for which coverage 
is requested may be considered to be applicable for all 
other wrought product forms having the same nominal 
composition. Testing shall include the characterization 
of the metallurgical structure, including determination 
of grain size. 
For wrought materials and especially for those materi­
als whose mechanical properties are enhanced by heat 
treatment, forming practices, or a combination thereof, 
and for other materials for which the mechanical proper­
ties may be reasonably expected to be thickness depen­
dent, data from one additional lot from material of at 
least 75% of the maximum thickness for which coverage 
is requested shall be submitted. If no maximum thickness 
is given, information shall be provided to support the suit­
ability of the thickness used for the tested samples. 
When adoption of cast product forms is requested, data 
from at least three heats for one of the cast product forms 
shall be submitted. The cast material shall be considered 
as a separate material even if its nominal composition is 
the same or very similar to that of an approved wrought 
material. 
If the hot isostatically pressed powder material meets 
all of the requirements of Table IV-100-1, it shall be con­
sidered the same material as that of the approved 
wrought material for temperatures approximately 50°F 
(25°C) below the temperature where time-dependent 
properties, as defined by the Time-Dependent Properties 
Notes (T-Notes) in the applicable allowable stress table 
for the approved wrought material, govern. 
If the hot isostatically pressed material is to be used at 
temperatures where the time-dependent properties, as 
defined by the Time-Dependent Properties Notes 
(T-Notes) in the applicable allowable stress table for the 
approved wrought material, govern, the requirements of 
this Appendix relative to the provision of data for new 
materials shall apply. 
If the hot isostatically pressed powder material does 
not meet all of the requirements of Table IV-100-1, it shall 
be considered as a separate material to that of the ap­
proved wrought material. In this case, the requirements 
of this Appendix relative to the provision of data for 
new materials shall apply. 
Additional data for other heats tested to a lesser degree 
than described herein would be beneficial to the Commit­
tee's consideration. 
IV-800 TIME-INDEPENDENT PROPERTIES 
For time-independent properties at and above room 
temperature, the required data include values of ultimate 
tensile strength, 0.2% offset yield strength, reduction of 
area (when specified in the material specification), and 
elongation. For steels, nickel alloys, cobalt alloys, and alu­
minum alloys, data shall be provided at room tempera­
ture and 100°F (50°C) intervals, beginning at 200°F 
(100°C) to 100°F (50°C) above the maximum intended 
use temperature, unless the maximum intended use tem­
perature does not exceed 100°F ( 40°C). For copper alloys, 
titanium alloys, and zirconium alloys, data shall be pro­
vided at room temperature, 150°F (65°C), and 200°F 
(100°C), and then at 100°F (50°C) intervals, to 100°F 
(50°C) above the maximum intended use temperature, 
unless the maximum intended use temperature does not 
exceed 100°F ( 40°C). The test methods shall be as given 
in ASTM A370, ASTM A1058, ASTM E8, ASTM E21, or 
other equivalent national or international test standards. 
In addition, when specified in the material specification, 
hardness values shall be provided at room temperature 
and shall be determined as specified in the material spec­
ification. Data provided shall be expressed in the units 
and to the number of significant figures shown in Table 
IV-800-1. When either the material specification or the 
applicable construction code ( e.g., Section XII) permits 
or requires that yield strength be determined by other 
than the 0.2% offset method, those other yield strength 
values shall also be reported. 
IV-900 TIME-DEPENDENT PROPERTIES 
If approval is desired for temperatures where time­
dependent properties may be expected to control design, 
time-dependent data, as itemized below, shall be pro­
vided, starting at temperatures approximately 50°F 
(25°C) below the temperature where time-dependent 
properties may govern and extending at least 100°F 
(S0°C) above the maximum intended use temperature. 
Exceptions to this rule are permitted, provided the in­
quirer provides suitable justification for the deviation. 
The creep-rupture test method shall be in accordance 
with ASTM E139 or other equivalent national or interna­
tional test standard.For time-dependent tests, the interval 
between successive temperatures shall be chosen such 
that it permits, in all cases, an accurate estimation of 
the slope of the stress-rupture curves. For normally stable 
materials ( e.g., solid solution-strengthened materials), 
test temperatures shall be at intervals of 100°F (50°C) 
or less. Where there is a possibility of degradation of 
strength related to metallurgical instability ( e.g., for 
precipitation-strengthened materials), test temperatures 
shall be at intervals of 50°F (25°C) or less. 
Data provided shall be expressed in the units and to the 
number of significant figures shown in Table IV-800-1.In 
addition, for certain types of steels or alloys, it may be 
1628 