SA-451/SA-451M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
7 .2 It is realized that the foundry may be unable to perform 
the hydrostatic test pdor to shipment, or that the purchaser may 
wish to defer testing until additional work has been performed 
on the casting. In such cases, the foundry is responsible for the 
satisfactory performance of the casting when it is tested. 
8. Quality 
8.1 The surface of the casting shall be examined visually 
and shall be free from cracks and hot tears. Other surface 
defects shall be judged in accordance with visual acceptance 
criteria which may be specified in the order. 
9. Rework and Retreatment 
9.1 Defects as defined in Section 8 shall be removed and 
their removal verified by visual inspection of the resultant 
cavities. Defects which are located by inspecting with Supple-• 
mentary Requirement S6 or S7, or both, shall be removed or 
reduced to an acceptable size. 
9 .2 If removal of the defect does not infringe upon the 
minimum wall thickness, the depression may be blended 
uniformly into the surrounding surface. 
9.3 If the cavity resulting from defect removal infringes 
upon the minimum wall thickness, weld repair is permitted 
subject to the purchasers' approval. The composition of the 
weld rod used shall be suitable for the composition of the metal 
being welded. 
9.3.l Only operators and procedures qualified in accordance 
with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX, shall 
be used. All repair welds will be inspected to the same quality 
standards used to inspect the casting. 
9.4 Postweld heat-treatment of the repaired casting is nei­
ther required nor prohibited. 
10. Permissible Variations in Dimensions 
10.1 Thickness-The wall thickness shall not vary over that 
specified by more than \Is in. (3 mm). There shall be no 
variation under the specified wall thickness. 
11. Genera) Requirements 
11.1 Mate1ial furnished under this specification shall con­
form to the applicable requirements of the current edition of 
Specification A999/ A999M, unless otherwise provided herein. 
12. Rejection 
12.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of the specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the pipe may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
13. Rehearing 
13.1 Samples that represent rejected material shall be pre­
served for 2 weeks from the date of transmission of the test 
report In case of dissatisfaction with the results of the tests, the 
manufacturer may make claim for a rehearing within that time. 
14. Certification 
14.l Upon request of the purchaser in the contract or order, 
a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufac­
tlired and tested in accordance with this specification, together 
with a report of the test results, shall. be furnished at the time 
of shipment. 
15. Product Marking 
15.l Each length of pipe shall be legibly marked with the 
manufacturer's name or brand, the letters ASTM, the specifi­
cation number, and grade. In addition, heat numbers, or serial 
numbers that are traceable to heat numbers, shall be marked on 
each length of pipe. 
16. Keywords 
16.1 austenitic; centlifugaily cast; height; high-temperature 
service; stainless steel; steel castings 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details of the 
supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. The specified 
tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
S l. Additional Tension Tests 
Sl.l Additional tension tests shall be made at a temperature 
to be specified by the customer, and the properties to be met are 
a matter of agreement between purchaser and manufacturer. 
S2. Flattening Test 
S2.1 The flattening test shall be made on specimens from 
one or both ends of each length of pipe. If the specimen from 
any end of any length fails to conform to the requirements of 
Specification A999/ A999M, that length shall be rejected. 
752 
S3. Photomicrographs 
S3.1 The manufacturer shall furnish one photomicrograph 
at 100 diameters from one specimen of as-finished pipe from 
each heat in each heat-treatment lot. Such photomicrographs 
shall be suitably identified as to pipe size, wall thickness, and 
heat. Such photomicrographs are for information only, to show 
the actual metal structme of the pipe as furnished. No photo­
micrographs for the individual pieces purchased shall be 
required except as specified in Supplementary Requirement S4. 