ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
MANDATORY APPENDIX IV (2s) 
GUIDELINES ON THE APPROVAL OF NEW MATERIALS UNDER 
THE ASME BOILER AND PRESSURE VESSEL CODE 
IV-100 CODE POLICY 
It is expected that requests for Code approval will nor­
mally be for materials for which there is a recognized na­
tional or international specification. It is the policy of the 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel (BPV) Committee on 
Materials to approve, for inclusion in the Code Sections, 
only materials covered by specifications that have been 
issued by standards-developing organizations such as, 
but not limited to, American Petroleum Institute (API), 
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 
American Welding Society (AWS), Canadian Standards 
Association (CSA), European Committee for Standardiza­
tion (CEN), Japan Industrial Standards (JIS), Standards As­
sociation of Australia (SAA), and China Standardization 
Committee (CSC). 
Material specifications issued by other than national or 
international standards-developing organizations will not 
be considered for approval. Examples for such material 
specifications are those issued by organizations perform­
ing conformity assessment activities and those issued by 
material producers/suppliers or by equipment manufac­
turers. The Committee will consider only official requests 
for specifications authorized by the originating standardi­
zation body and available in the English language and in 
U.S. Customary and/or SI/Metric units. 
For materials made to a recognized national or interna­
tional specification other than that of ASTM or AWS, the 
inquirer shall give notice to the standards-developing or­
ganization that a request has been made to ASME for ap­
proval of the specification under the ASME Code and 
should request that the issuing organization grant ASME 
permission to at least reproduce copies of the specifica­
tion for Code Committee internal use and, if possible, re­
print the specification. For other materials, a request shall 
be made to ASTM, AWS, or a recognized national or inter­
national standardization body to include the material in a 
specification that can be presented to the BPV Committee 
on Materials. 
It is the policy of the ASME BPV Committee on Materials 
to consider requests to approve new materials only from 
boiler, pressure vessel, transport tank, nuclear facility 
component manufacturers, architect-engineers, or end 
users. Such requests should be for wrought, cast, or hot 
isostatically pressed powder materials for which there 
is a reasonable expectation of use in a boiler, pressure 
vessel, transport tank, or nuclear facility component 
constructed to the rules of one of the Sections of this 
Code. When a grade does exist in a defined wrought pro­
duct form, a material producer/supplier may request the 
inclusion of additional wrought product forms or, pro­
vided all of the requirements of Table IV-100-1 of this 
Appendix are met, the inclusion of hot isostatically 
pressed (HIP) powder metallurgy components of this 
grade. When a grade does exist in a defined cast product 
form, a material producer/supplier may request the in­
clusion of additional cast product forms. 
Any qualified organization requesting that an ASME 
BPV Committee approve a "new" material for use in their 
Code book should be aware that only the BPV Committee 
on Materials provides the appropriate design values for 
the Construction Codes (Sections I, III, IV, VIII, and XII 
of the BPV Code and B31 Codes). 
The design values are calculated in accordance with the 
appropriate mandatory Code rules. If the inquirer consid­
ers the material to be essentially identical to one that has 
been approved by the BPV Committee on Materials, the 
inquirer shall so state in its request, and the BPV Commit­
tee on Materials shall evaluate that judgment. If the mate­
rial is not essentially identical to one that has been 
approved by the BPV Committee on Materials, the in­
quirer shall provide all of the data cited in these Guide­
lines. Based on those data, the BPV Committee on 
Materials will provide the appropriate design values. 
Before approval of a new material for inclusion in one 
of the Sections of the Code, use of this material may be 
permitted in the form of a Code Case. This Case shall fix 
at least the conditions of use and the necessary require­
ments linked to these conditions. It is the policy of the 
ASME BPV Committee to admit, in this way, material for 
which full experience on all working parameters has not 
yet been acquired. If the new material is not made to a re­
cognized national or international specification, a Code 
Case can be issued only when a request is submitted to 
a recognized standardization body to include the material 
in their specification. 
IV-200 APPLICATION 
The inquirer shall identify to the BPV Committee the 
following: 
( a) the Section or Sections and Divisions of the Code in 
which the new material is to be approved 
1625 