ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-20/SA-Z0M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following standardized supplementary requirements are for use if desired by the purchaser, 
Those that are considered suitable for use with a product specification are listed in the product 
specification. Other tests may be performed by agreement between the manufacturer or processor and 
the purchaser. These supplementary requirements shall apply only if specified in the purchase order, 
in which event the specified tests shall be made by the manufacturer or processor before shipment of 
the plates. 
Sl. Vacuum Treatment 
S 1.1 The steel shall be made by a process that includes 
vacuum degassing while molten. Unless otherwise agreed upon 
with the purchaser, it is the responsibility of the manufacturer 
to select suitable process procedures. 
S2. Product Analysis 
S2.1 A product analysis shall be made of each plate as 
rolled. The specimens for analysis shall be taken adjacent to or 
from a broken tension test specimen. 
S3. Simulated Post-Weld Heat Treatment of Mechanical 
Test Coupons 
S3.1 Prior to testing, the test coupons representing the plate 
for acceptance purposes for mechanical properties shall be 
thermally treated to simulate a post-weld heat treatment below 
the critical temperature (Ac 3 ), using the heat treatment param­
eters (such as temperature range, time, and cooling rates) 
specified in the purchase order. For tests using specimens taken 
from such heat treated test coupons, the test results shall meet 
the requirements of the applicable product specification. Test­
ing need only be performed and reported in the simulated 
post-weld heat treated condition. 
S4. Additional Tension Test 
S4.1 Other Than Quenched-and-Tempered Plates-In addi­
tion to the required single tension test, a second tension test 
shall be made using a test specimen taken from a test coupon 
taken from a corner of the plate-as-rolled on the end opposite 
the single test specimen and in a direction parallel to the single 
test specimen. The results obtained using this second test 
specimen shall meet the requirements of the applicable product 
specification. 
S4.2 Quenched-and-Tempered Plates 2 in. [50 mm] or 
Greater in Thickness-In addition to the required tension tests, 
two additional test coupons shall be taken from the bottom 
corner of the plate. One shall be taken at the center of the plate 
thickness and the other immediately beneath the surface. 
Mandatory conformance of these additional tests with the 
specified properties shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
SS. Charpy V-Notch Impact Test 
S5.l Charpy V-notch impact tests shall be conducted in 
accordance with 12.1. 
79 
S5.2 The orientation of the test specimens, whether longi­
tudinal or transverse to the direction of rolling, shall be as 
specified in the purchase order. 
S5.3 The test temperature and the required acceptance 
criteria, if other than those required in 12.1, shall be as 
specified in the purchase order. 
S5.4 The recorded results shall include test specimen 
orientation, test specimen size, test temperature, absorbed 
energy values, and, if specified in the purchase order for other 
than Class VI plates, lateral expansion opposite the notch. The 
percent shear fracture appearance shall also be recorded if 
specified in the purchase order. 
S6. Drop-Weight Test (for Plates 0.625 in. [16 mm] and 
Over in Thickness) 
S6.l Drop-weight tests shall be made in accordance with the 
requirements of Test Method E208. The specimens shall 
represent the plates in the final condition of heat treatment. 
Agreement shall be reached between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer or processor as to the number of plates to be 
tested and whether a maximum NDT temperature is mandatory 
or if the test results are for information only. 
S7. High-Temperature Tension Tests 
S7.1 A sho1i-time elevated temperature tension test shall be 
made to represent each plate or each heat of steel as indicated 
by the purchaser. The specimens for testing shall be obtained as 
required for the room temperature tension tests specified in the 
body of this general requirements specification. The high­
temperature tests shall be made in accordance with the require­
ments of Test Methods E21. Mandatory conformance of such 
additional tests with the specified properties shall be a matter 
for agreement between the manufacturer or processor and the 
purchaser. 
SS. Ultrasonic Examination in Accordance with A435/ 
A435M 
S8.1 All plates shall be ultrasonically examined in accor­
dance with the requirements of Specification A435/ A435M. 
S9. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S9.l All plate edges shall be examined by magnetic par­
ticles in accordance with the procedures covered in Guide 
E709. The acceptability of defects revealed by this examina­
tion shall be judged in accordance with the requirements for 
quality in 9.3. 