SA/EN 10025•2 ASME BPVC.II.A·2025 
SPECIFICATION FOR HOT ROLLED PRODUCTS OF 
STRUCTURAL STEELS 
Part 2: Technical Delivery Conditions for Non-Alloy 
Structural Steels 
SA/EN 10025-2 
(Identical with International Specification EN 10025-2:2019 with these additional requirements.) 
1. Additional Requirements 
1.1 Marking: 
( a] In addition to the marking requirements of this 
specification, all products required to be marked and 
material identification used on all documentation 
required by this specification are to be identified by 
this SA/EN specification designation. 
(b] Products that have been given the full heat treat­
ment required by para. 6.3 shall be marked by the party 
performing the heat treatment with the letters designating 
the applicable heat treatment condition following the 
. stamped steel name or number. 
',' (c] Products that have received a normalizing treat­
ment shall be marked "+N." Products that have received 
a normalizing rolling treatment shall be marked "+NR" 
instead of "+N." 
( d) Products that are not heat treated but are qualified 
on the basis of heat treated specimens shall be stamped 
with letter "G" following the stamped specification desig­
nation. 
(e J When such products are subsequently heat treated, 
they shall be marked by the party that performed the heat 
treatment, as required by (b] following the required 
stamped specification designation. 
1.2 Chemical Composition: 
These materials shall conform to SA-20/SA-Z0M Table 
1, whenever SA-20/SA-Z0M Table 1 is more restrictive. 
1.3 Resurfacing by Welding: 
If resurfacing by welding is acceptable by agreement 
with the purchaser the following requirements have to 
be fulfilled: 
( a) Preparation for repair welding shall include inspec­
tion to assure complete removal of the defect. 
(b) Repairs shall be made utilizing welding procedures 
qualified in accordance with ASME Section IX and repair 
welding shall be done by welders or welding operators 
meeting the qualification requirements of ASME 
Section IX. 
1.4 Test Reports: 
1.4.1 For all products, a test report shall be furn­
ished; it shall include all elements required in this SA/ 
EN specification. 
1.4.2 The designation of this SA/EN specification 
shall include the edition year. 
1.4.3 Copies of the original manufacturer's test 
report shall be included with any subsequent test report. 
2. National Parts 
2.1 The National Foreword and the National Annexes, 
if any, do not apply for SA/EN 10025-2. 
1568 
~ 
~· 