SA-Z0/SA-Z0M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
A3. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
A3.l Proposals for the introduction of new plate materials 
to be covered by the general requirements in this specification, 
either by the addition of new grades within existing 
specifications, or by the creation of a new specification shall be 
subject to the following conditions: 
A3.l.1 The application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification or a new specification shall be made to the chair 
of the subcommittee. Applications for new specifications 
remain subject to the approval of Committee A0l. Revisions to 
existing specifications for such reasons as chemistry or thick­
ness limitation are not subject to this annex. 
A3.l.2 The application shall contain documentation citing 
the requisite need for the new material and its intended use as 
outlined in Form and Style for ASTM Standards, BS. Scope.3 
That documentation may be in the form of a letter from a user, 
fabricator, another standards development organization, or 
producer stating the purpose and intended use for said new 
mate1ial. The Subcommittee may consider other evidence of 
need for the proposal. Additional background information as 
may be pertinent to the introduction of tlie new material may 
also be presented with the proposal. 
A3.l.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, shall be furnished and shall include: 
A3.l.3.l Chemical data reflecting a suitable representation 
of tlie required chemistry range requested. 
A3.l.3.2 Mechanical property data representing the pro­
posed requirements in the delivered condition from each of the 
heats supplied. 
NoTE A3. l-To assist the balloting process, data from plates represent­
ing the maximum proposed thickness should be provided recognizing that 
in some cases the standard may be "limited only by the capacity of the 
composition to meet the specified mechanical property requirements." 
A3.l.3.3 Mechanical property data in the simulated Post­
Weld Heat Treatment (PWHT) condition if the product speci­
fication lists Supplementary Requirement S3. 
A3.l.3.4 Evidence of weldability if the material is intended 
for welded construction as may be referenced in the Scope 
section of the new or existing standard. 
NoTE A3.2-Such evidence is at the discretion of the submitter. 
Common methodology may include but not be limited to a single ASME 
Section IX qualification such as is referenced in 9 .4 of this specification. 
A3.l.4 Other properties that are not specification require­
ments that further describe the material, including physical 
properties, are not mandatory. However, to the extent that such 
information may assist the Subcommittee in evaluating the 
proposal they may be included. Omission of such non-essential 
documentation shall not be a cause for rejection of the 
application by the subcommittee. 
A3.l.5 The application shall state whether or not a patent 
covers ilie new material. 
APPENDIXES 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. COILED STEEL 
Xl.1 Continuous wide hot strip rolling mills are nonnally 
equipped with coilers. Regardless of the different types of 
systems employed during or following the rolling operations, it 
is common for the steel to be reeled into the coiler at 
temperatures in the stress-relieving range. In general, such 
temperatures are higher as the steel thickness increases. The 
coils subsequently cool to ambient temperature with outer and 
inner laps cooling more rapidly than central laps. The differ-
98 
ence in cooling rate can result in measurable differences in the 
mechanical properties throughout a coil. Data confirm reduced 
yield and tensile strength, and increased percent elongation, for 
the product wiili slower cooling rates from the coiling tem­
perature to ambient. Such differences are in addition to the 
effects on mechanical properties caused by differences in heat 
analysis and chemical segregation. 