SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/A568M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Xl.3.2.1 Low-carbon commercial steel (CS) and drawing 
steel (DS) sheet are available as either batch- or continuous­
annealed products, depending on the facilities of a given 
producer. To minimize aging effects in continuous-annealed 
products, rotation of stock by fabricating the oldest material 
first is recommended. 
Xl .4 Interstitial-Free Steels-Interstitial-free steels have 
essentially no interstitial solutes and, as a result, are nonaging. 
Processing involves vacuum degassing during refining of the 
liquid steel, as well as additions of elements that form very 
stable carbides and nitrides, such as titanium or columbium 
(niobium). These steps ensure that total interstitial levels are 
very low, and that the interstitials are all chemically combined 
( or stabilized) in the fmm of alloy carbides or nitrides. 
Interstitial-free steels are nonaging regardless of whether 
annealing is conducted in a continuous or batch manner. 
Xl.4.1 Extra-deep drawing steel (EDDS) must be vacuum 
degassed and stabilized. This nonaging, interstitial-free product 
is suitable for exposed applications with the most severe 
forming requirements. 
Xl.5 Bake-Hardenable Steels-Bake-hardenable steels are 
a special product class with controlled interstitial solute levels 
and aging behavior. These steels are processed to have mod­
erate aging resistance, to permit forming while the steel is in its 
most ductile condition. Aging occurs largely during a subse­
quent thermal treatment (for example, paint-curing), which 
results in desirable hardening of the final part for better 
durability. 
Xl.5.1 Continuous-annealed low-carbon steels can exhibit 
significant bake-hardening, as well as certain vacuum-degassed 
and batch-annealed steels. 
X2. STANDARD CHEMICAL RANGES AND LIMITS 
X2.l Standard chemical ranges and limits are prescribed for 
carbon steels in Table X2.1. 
X2.2 Chemical ranges for non-standard steels are prescribed 
in Table X2.2. 
X2.2.1 Other ranges are available upon agreement between 
purchase and producer. 
998 
X2.3 The purchaser shall indicate if they wish to invoke 
Table X2.l (and the Steel Designation to be employed), Table 
X2.2 (and the maximum composition), or Table X2.3 (and the 
Grade Designation) when placing their order. 
X2.3.1 Table X2.3 specifies options that may only be used 
in conjunction with Specifications A1008/A1008M and 
A1011/A1011M. 
-~-. 