SA-240/SA-240M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
A supplementary requirement shall apply only when specified in the purchase order. 
Sl. Charpy Impact Testing of Plate 
S 1.1 Charpy impact tests shall be conducted in accordance 
with Test Methods and Definitions A370. 
Sl.2 Number of Tests-One impact test (three specimens) 
shall be made from one plate per heat treatment lot in the final 
heat treated condition. 
Sl.3 Orientation of Test Specimens-Unless specified as 
transverse specimens (long axis of the specimen transverse to 
the final rolling direction, root of the notch perpendicular to the 
rolling face) on the purchase order, the orientation o~ the 
specimens shall be longitudinal (long axis of the spec11nen 
parallel to the final rolling direction, root of the_ notch ~erpen­
dicular to the rolling face). The manufacturer is permitted to 
test transverse specimens provided that such tests meet the 
acceptance criteria applicable to longitudinal specimen~. Un­
less otherwise specified on the purchase order, the specimens 
shall be taken so as to include the mid-thickness of the product. 
S 1 .4 Test Temperature-The purchaser shall specify the 
test temperature. The manufacturer is permitted to test speci­
mens at a temperature lower than that specified by the 
purchaser, provided that such tests shall meet the acceptance 
criteria applicable to specimens tested at the specified tempera­
ture (see the note below). 
Norn S 1.1-Test Methods A923, Method B, applicable to some duplex 
(austenitic-fen-itic) stainless steels as listed in Test ~ethods A923, uses a 
Charpy impact test for the purpose of detern:immg the absence of 
detrimental intermetallic phases. Method B specifies a test temperature 
and acceptance criterion, expressed as impact energy, for each type of 
steel covered. It may be economical for the Charpy impact tests performed 
on duplex stainless steels covered in both Specification A240 and _Test 
Methods A923 to be performed at the lower of the temperatures specified 
by this supplementary requirement and Test Methods A923 Method B, 
with measurement of both lateral expansion and impact energy. 
352 
S 1.5 Acceptance Limit-Unless otherwise specified on the 
purchase order, each of the three specimens tested shall sh~w 
a lateral expansion opposite the notch of not less than 0.015 m. 
[0.38 mm]. 
Sl.6 Records-The recorded results shall include the 
specimen orientation, specimen size, test temperature, ~b­
sorbed energy values (if required), and lateral expans10n 
opposite the notch. 
S2. Materials for High-Temperature Service 
S2.l Unless an H grade has been ordered, this supplemen­
tary requirement shall be specified for ASME Code applica­
tions for service above 1000°F [540°C]. 
S2.2 The user is permitted to use an austenitic stainless 
steel as the corresponding H grade when the material meets all 
requirements of the H grade including chemistry, annealing 
temperature, and grain size (see Section 6). . . 
S2.3 The user is permitted to use an L grade austemtic 
stainless steel for service above 1000°F [540°C], subject to the 
applicable allowable stress table of the ASME Code, when the 
material meets all requirements of this specification and the 
grain size is ASTM No. 7 or coarser as determined in 
accordance with Test Methods E112. The grain size shall be 
reported on a Certified Test Report. 
S3. One Percent Offset Yield Strength 
S3 .1 If reporting of 1 % offset yield strength is specified on 
the purchase order; the material shall meet the strength 
requirements shown in Table S3.1. . 
S3.2 The mechanical properties, including 1 % offset yield 
strength and all other required properties shall be reported on 
a Material Test Report. 