SA-1058 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
TENSION TEST 
5. Description 
5.1 The tension test related to the mechanical testing of steel 
products subjects a machined or full-section specimen of the 
material under examination to a measured load sufficient to 
cause rupture. The resulting properties sought are defined in 
Test Methods E8/E8M, ISO 6892-1, or JIS Z 2241 as appli­
cable. 
5.2 In general, the testing equipment and methods are given 
in Test Methods E8/E8M, ISO 6892-1, and JIS Z 2241. 
However, there are certain exceptions to these practices; these 
exceptions are covered in this standard. 
6. Testing Apparatus and Operations 
6.1 Loading Systems-There are two general types of load­
ing systems, mechanical (screw power) and hydraulic. These 
differ chiefly in the variability of the rate of load application. 
The older screw power machines are limited to a small number 
of fixed free running crosshead speeds. Some modern screw 
power machines, and all hydraulic machines permit stepless 
variation throughout the range of speeds. 
6.2 The tension testing machine shall be maintained in good 
operating condition, used only in the proper loading range, and 
calibrated periodically in accordance with the latest revision of 
the appropriate practices. 
NoTE 2-Many machines are equipped with stress-strain recorders for 
autographic plotting of stress-strain curves. It should be noted that some 
recorders have a load measuring component entirely separate from the 
load indicator of the testing machine. Such recorders are calibrated 
separately. 
6.3 Loading-It is the function of the gripping or holding 
device of the testing machine to transmit the load from the 
heads of the machine to the specimen under test. The essential 
requirement is that the load shall be transmitted axially. This 
implies that the centers of the action of the grips shall be in 
alignment, insofar as practicable, with the axis of the specimen 
at the beginning and during the test and that bending and 
twisting be held to a minimum. 
6.4 Speed of Testing-The speed of testing shall not be 
greater than that at which load and strain readings can be made 
accurately. In production testing, speed of testing is commonly 
expressed ( 1) in terms of free running crosshead speed (rate of 
movement of the crosshead of the testing machine when not 
under load), or (2) in terms of rate of separation of the two 
heads of the testing machine under load, or ( 3) in terms of rate 
of stressing the specimen, or ( 4) in terms of rate of straining the 
specimen. The following limitations on the speed of testing are 
recommended as adequate for most steel products: 
NOTE 3-Tension tests using closed-loop machines (with feedback 
control of rate) should not be performed using load control, as this mode 
of testing will result in acceleration of the crosshead upon yielding and 
elevation of the measured yield strength. 
6.4.1 Any convenient speed of testing may be used up to 
one half the specified yield point or yield strength. When this 
point is reached, the free-running rate of separation of the 
crossheads shall be adjusted so as not to exceed 0.025 mm per 
second per 25 mm of reduced section, or the distance between 
the grips for test specimens not having reduced sections. This 
speed shall be maintained through the yield point or yield 
strength. In determining the tensile strength, the free-running 
rate of separation of the heads shall not exceed 13 mm per min 
per 25 mm of reduced section, or the distance between the 
grips for test specimens not having reduced sections. In any 
event, the minimum speed of testing shall not be less than 1/10 
the specified maximum rates for determining yield point or 
yield strength and tensile strength. 
6.4.2 It shall be permissible to set the speed of the testing 
machine by adjusting the free running crosshead speed to the 
above specified values, inasmuch as the rate of separation of 
heads under load at these machine settings is less than the 
specified values of free running crosshead speed. 
6.4.3 As an alternative, if the machine is equipped with a 
device to indicate the rate of loading, the speed of the machine 
from half the specified yield point or yield strength through the 
yield point or yield strength may be adjusted so that the rate of 
stressing does not exceed 11 MPa per second. However, the 
minimum rate of stressing shall not be less than 1 MPa per 
second. 
7. Test Specimen Parameters 
7.1 Selection-Test coupons shall be selected in accordance 
with the applicable product specifications. 
7.2 Size and Tolerances-Test specimen dimensions and 
tolerances shall comply with the requirements of the relevant 
standards. 
7.3 Procurement of Test Specimens-Specimens shall be 
prepared from portions of the material. They are usually 
machined so as to have a reduced cross section at mid-length 
in order to obtain uniform distribution of the stress over the 
cross section and to localize the zone of fracture. Care shall be 
taken to remove by machining all distorted, cold-worked, or 
heat-affected areas from the edges of the section used in 
evaluating the test. 
7.4 Aging of Test Specimens-Unless otherwise specified, it 
shall be permissible to age tension test specimens. The time­
temperature cycle employed must be such that the effects of 
previous processing will not be materially changed. It may be 
accomplished by aging at room temperature 24 to 48 h, or in 
shorter time at moderately elevated temperatures by boiling in 
water, heating in oil or in an oven. 
7.5 Measurement of Dimensions of Test Specimens-Test 
specimens shall be measured in accordance with the require­
ments of 7.5.1 and 7.5.2 for ASTM or the appropriate para­
graphs of ISO 6892-1 or JIS Z 2241, as applicable. 
7.5.1 Rectangular Tension Test-These forms of specimens 
are shown in Test Methods E8/E8M. To determine the cross­
sectional area, the center width dimension shall be measured to 
the nearest 0.15 mm for the 200-mm gauge length specimen 
and 0.025 mm for the 50-mm gauge length specimen. The 
center thickness dimension shall be measured to the nearest 
0.025 mm for both specimens. 
7.5.2 Round Tension Test Specimens-These forms of speci­
mens are shown in Test Methods E8/E8M. To determine the 
1544 