ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-181/SA-181M 
4.5 Heat treatment is neither required nor prohibited, 
but when applied, heat treatment shall consist of tempering, 
annealing, normalizing, or normalizing and tempering. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5.1 An analysis of each heat shall be made by the 
manufacturer to determine the percentages of the elements 
specified in Table 1. The chemical composition thus deter­
mined shall conform to the requirements in Table 1. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 The material shall conform to the requirements as 
to tensile properties prescribed in Table 2. 
7. Number of Tests 
7 .1 One tension test shall be made from each heat. 
7.2 If any test specimen is defectively machined, it 
may be discarded and another specimen substituted. 
8. Retests 
8.1 When one or more representative 'test specimens 
do not conform to specification requirements for the tested 
characteristic, only a single retest for each nonconforming 
characteristic may be performed to establish product 
acceptability. Retests shall be performed on twice the num­
ber of representative specimens that were originally non­
conforming. When any retest specimen does not conform 
to specification requirements for the characteristic in ques­
tion, the lot represented by that specimen shall be rejected, 
heat-treated or reheat-treated in accordance with 4.5, and 
tested in accordance with Sections 6 and 7. 
9. Reports of Testing 
9.1 Upon request of the purchaser in the contract or 
order, a report of the test results and chemical analyses 
shall be furnished. The specification designation included 
on reports of testing shall include year of issue and revision 
letter, if any. 
10. Repair by Welding 
10.1 Repair welding, by the manufacturer, is permissi­
ble for parts made to dimensional standards such as those 
of ANSI or equivalent standards. 
207 
10.2 Prior approval of the purchaser shall be required 
to weld repair special parts made to the purchaser's require­
ments. 
10.3 The composition of the weld deposits shall be 
similar to the base metal and in accordance with the proce­
dure qualification for the applicable material. Welding shall 
be accomplished with a weld procedure designed to pro­
duce low hydrogen in the weldment. Short-circuit gas metal 
arc welding is permissible only with the approval of the 
purchaser. 
11. Marking of Forgings 
11.1 Identification marks consisting of the manufactur­
er's symbol or name, designation of service rating, Speci­
fication number, class, and size shall be legibly forged or 
stamped on each forging, and in such a position as not to 
injure the usefulness of the forgings. 
11.2 Bar Coding - In addition to the requirements in 
11.1, bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary identifi­
cation method. The purchaser may specify in the order a 
specific bar coding system to be used. The bar coding 
system, if applied at the discretion of the supplier, should 
be consistent with one of the published industry standards 
for bar coding. If used on small parts the bar code may be 
applied to the box or a substantially applied tag. 
12. Certificate of Compliance 
12.1 When specified in the purchase order or contract, 
a producer's or supplier's certification shall be furnished to 
the purchaser that the material was manufactured, sampled, 
tested, and inspected in accordance with this specification 
and has been found to meet the requirements. The specifi­
cation designation included on certificates of compliance 
shall include year of issue and revision letter, if any. 
12.2 When specified in the purchase order or contract, 
a rep01t of the test results shall be furnished. 
13. Keywords 
13.1 pipe fittings, steel; piping applications; pressure 
containing parts; steel forgings, carbon; steel valves 