neither requires nor prohibits the use of computers for the design or analysis of components constructed to the require­
ments of the Code. However, designers and engineers using computer programs for design or analysis are cautioned that 
they are responsible for all technical assumptions inherent in the programs they use and the application of these pro­
grams to their design. 
The rules established by the Committee are not to be interpreted as approving, recommending, or endorsing any pro­
prietary or specific design, or as limiting in any way the manufacturer's freedom to choose any method of design or any 
form of construction that conforms to the Code rules. 
The Committee meets regularly to consider revisions of the rules, new rules as dictated by technological development, 
Code cases, and requests for interpretations. Only the Committee has the authority to provide official interpretations of 
the Code. Requests for revisions, new rules, Code cases, or interpretations shall be addressed to the staff secretary in 
writing and shall give full particulars in order to receive consideration and action (see the Correspondence With the 
Committee page). Proposed revisions to the Code resulting from inquiries will be presented to the Committee for appro­
priate action. The action of the Committee becomes effective only after confirmation by ballot of the Committee and ap­
proval by ASME. Proposed revisions to the Code approved by the Committee are submitted to the American National 
Standards Institute (ANSI) and published at http://go.asme.org/BPVCPublicReview to invite comments from all inter­
ested persons. After public review and final approval by ASME, revisions are published at regular intervals in Editions of 
the Code. 
The Committee does not rule on whether a component shall or shall not be constructed to the provisions of the Code. 
The scope of each Section has been established to identify the components and parameters considered by the Committee 
in formulating the Code rules. 
Questions or issues regarding compliance of a specific component with the Code rules are to be directed to the ASME 
Certificate Holder (Manufacturer). Inquiries concerning the interpretation of the Code are to be directed to the Commit­
tee. ASME is to be notified should questions arise concerning improper use of the ASME Single Certification Mark. 
When required by context in the Code, the singular shall be interpreted as the plural, and vice versa. 
The words "shall;' "should," and "may'' are used in the Code as follows: 
- Shall is used to denote a requirement. 
- Should is used to denote a recommendation. 
- May is used to denote permission, neither a requirement nor a recommendation. 
xiii 