ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-263 
4.1. 7 Mechanical properties including shear test if required 
(see Sections 7, 8, and 9). 
4.1.8 Finish (see Section 12). 
4.1.9 Restrictions, if required, on repair by welding (see 
Section 14). 
4.1.10 Additions to the specification or special requirements 
such as any applicable construction code rules. 
4.1.11 Notification when the cladding alloy is to be used for 
inclusion in the design strength calculations for an applicable 
construction code. 
Norn I-Construction codes may dictate certain fabrication require­
ments when the cladding is used in the design calculations that may be 
different than if the cladding is used for corrosion resistance only. This 
may be particularly important when the alloy cladding involves the use of 
welded components in the explosion bonded clad manufacturing process. 
It is incumbent on the purchaser to make the clad manufacturer aware of 
any such restrictions or applications at time of order. 
4.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this specification 
and the backing steel specification, certain supplementary 
requirements are available when additional control, testing, or 
examination is required to meet end use requirements. The 
purchaser is referred to the listed supplementary requirements 
in this specification and to the detailed requirements in 
Specification A20/A20M. 
4.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
5. Materials and Manufacture 
5.1 Process: 
5.1.1 The steel shall be made by the open-heaiih, electric­
fumace, or basic-oxygen processes, or by secondary processes 
whereby steel made from these primary processes is remelted 
using, but not limited to electroslag remelting or vacuum-arc 
remelting processes. 
5.1.2 The alloy-cladding metal may be metallurgically 
bonded to the base metal by any method that will produce a 
clad steel that will conform to the requirements of this 
specification. 
5.1.3 For explosively bonded products, the alloy cladding 
metal may be comprised of two or more separate alloy plates 
or sheets completely welded together to fonn a single fabri­
cated component. 
5.2 Heat Treatment-Unless otherwise specified or agreed 
upon between the purchaser and the manufacturer, all plates 
shall be furnished in the normalized, tempered, normalized and 
tempered, or quenched and tempered condition as permitted by 
the backing steel specification. Stress relieving of the compos­
ite plate by heating subcritically is permitted, provided the 
temperature is 75°F (40°C) or more below the minimum 
tempering temperature (when tempered). 
6. Chemical Composition 
6.1 The composite plate shall conform to any desired 
combination of alloy-cladding metal and base metal as de­
scribed in 6.2 and 6.3 and as agreed upon between the 
purchaser and the manufacturer. 
6.2 Alloy Cladding Metal-The alloy-cladding metal speci­
fied shall conform to the requirements as to chemical compo­
sition prescribed for the respective chromium steel in Specifi­
cation A240/A240M. 
6.3 Base Metal-The base metal shall be carbon steel or 
low-alloy steel conforming to the ASTM specifications for 
steels for pressure vessels or other as agreed by the purchaser 
and the manufacturer. The base metal shall conform to the 
chemical requirements of the specification to which it is 
ordered. 
7. Mechanical Properties 
7.1 Tensile Requirements: 
7 .1.1 The tensile properties shall be determined by a tension 
test of the composite plate for clad plates that meet all of the 
following conditions. 
(I) The nominal composite gage is less than or equal to 
1 ½ in. (38 mm). 
(2) The specified minimum tensile strength of the base 
steel is less than or equal to 70 000 psi ( 485 MPa). 
( 3) The specified minimum yield strength of the base steel 
is less than or equal to 40 000 psi (275 MPa). 
The tensile properties thus determined shall be not less than 
the minimum and not more than 5000 psi (35 MPa) over the 
maximum prescribed in the specification for the base steel 
used. All other tensile test requirements of the specification for 
the base steel shall be met. 
7 .1.2 The tensile properties shall be determined by a tension 
test of the base steel only for clad plates that meet one of the 
following conditions. The properties thus determined shall 
meet all of the tensile test requirements for the base steel. 
(I) The composite gage is greater than 1 ½ in. (38 nnn). 
(2) The specified minimum tensile strength of the base 
steel is greater than 70 000 psi (485 MPa). 
(3) The specified minimum yield strength of the base steel 
is greater than 40 000 psi (275 MPa). 
7 .1.3 If the cladding is for corrosion allowance only, the 
cladding need not be included in the tensile test. The tensile 
properties thus determined shall meet the base steel require­
ments. 
7 .2 Tests for strength of the bond, when required, must be 
specified by the purchaser and shall consist of one of the 
following. 
7.2.1 Shear Strength-When required by the purchaser, the 
minimum shear strength of the alloy cladding and base metals 
shall be 20 000 psi (140 MPa). The shear test, when specified, 
shall be made in the manner indicated in Fig. 1. The minimum 
cladding thickness for.shear testing shall be 0.075 in. (1.9 mm) 
exclusive as ordered. Testing for shear strength for clad plates 
with minimum cladding thickness of 0.075 in. (1.9 mm) or less 
shall be permitted upon agreement between the purchaser and 
the manufacturer. 
375 
7.2.2 Bond Strength-As an alternative to the shear strength 
test provided in 7.2.1, or when agreed upon by the purchaser 
and the manufacturer, or both, three bend tests shall be made 
with the alloy cladding in compression to determine the quality 
of the bond. These bend tests shall be made in the manner of 
the tension tests indicated in Fig. 2 and shall be bent through an 