ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
or the ferrite grain size of the steel in the as-rolled or as-forged 
condition. The prior austenitic grain size and the fen-itic grain size of 
as-rolled or as-forged steel products are controlled by the manufactur­
ing process and may be assisted by suitable chemistry. The appropriate 
manufacturing process controls needed to meet the mechanical property 
requirements of the specification in the asrolled or as-forged condition 
are neither defined nor implied by the inclusion of a fine grain practice 
requirement. 
flame annealing, n-annealing in which the heat is applied 
directly by a flame. 
flame hardening, n-a process in which only the surface layer 
of a suitable steel object is heated by flame to above Ac 3 or 
Accm• and then the object is quenched. 
fog quenching, n-quenching in a mist. 
full annealing, n-annealing a steel object by austenitizing it 
and then cooling it slowly through the transformation 
range. 
D1scuss10N-The austenitizing temperature is usually above Ac 3 for 
hypoeutectoid steels and between Ac 1 and Accm for hypereutectoid 
steels. 
grain growth, n-an increase in the grain size of a steel object, 
usually as a result of exposure to elevated temperatures. 
grain size, n-the dimensions of tl1e grains or crystals in a 
polycrystalline metal, exclusive of twinned regions and 
subgrains when present. 
D1scuss10N-Grain size is usually estimated or measured on the 
cross section of ,m aggregate of grains, and designated by an ASTM 
grain size number. (See Test Methods Ell2.) 
graphitization annealing, n-annealing a steel object in such 
a way that some or all of the carbon is precipitated as 
graphite. 
hardenability, n-the property that determines the depth and 
distribution of hardness induced by quenching a steel 
object. 
hardening, n-increasing the hardness by suitable treatment, 
usually involving heating and cooling. 
D1scuss10N-Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: age hardening, case hardening, flame 
hardening, induction hardening, precipitation hardening, and 
quench hardening. 
heat, -n-a generic term denoting a specific lot of steel, based 
upon steelmaking and casting considerations. 
D1scussmN-Where it is necessary to be more definitive, the follow­
ing more specific terms are used: primary heat, multiple heat, and 
remelted heat. In product specifications, the term heat generally is 
used, without qualification, to mean the primary, multiple, or re­
melted heat, whichever is applicable. 
heat analysis, n-the chemical analysis determined by tl1e 
steel producer as being representative of a specific heat of 
steel. 
D1scuss10N-Where the analysis reported by the steel producer is not 
sufficiently complete for conformance with the heat analysis require­
ments of the applicable product specification to be fully assessed, the 
manufacturer may complete the assessment of conformance with such 
heat analysis requirements by using a product analysis for the specified 
elements that were not reported by the steel producer, provided that 
product analysis tolerances are not applied and the heat analysis is not 
altered. 
heat number, n-the alpha, numeric, or alphanumeric desig­
nator used to identify a specific heat of steel. 
heat treatment, n-heating and cooling a steel object in such 
a way as to obtain desired conditions or properties. 
D1scuss10N-Heating for the sole purpose of hot working is excluded 
from the meaning of this definition. 
high-strength low-alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a carbon 
steel or an interstitial-free steel, that conforms to a speci­
fication that requires the minimum content for each specified 
alloying element to be lower tlmn the applicable limit in the 
definition for alloy steel, and the yield point or yield strength 
of the product to be at least 36 ksi or 250 MPa. 
homogeneous carburizing, n-a process that converts a low­
carbon steel to one of substantially uniform and higher 
carbon content throughout the section, so that a specific 
response to hardening may be obtained. 
homogenizing, n-holding a steel object at high temperature to 
eliminate or decrease chemical segregation by diffusion. 
hot-cold working, n-the mechanical deformation of auste­
nitic and precipitation hardening steels at a temperature just 
below the recrystallization temperature to increase the 
yield strength and hardness by plastic deformation or pre­
cipitation hardening effects induced by plastic deformation, 
or both. 
hot-finished, n-the condition of a product that has been 
cooled directly after the last hot-working operation, without 
cold-working (except for straightening or flattening), and 
independent of the temperature at which hot-working was 
completed. 
D1scuss10N-The tolerances and surface finish of hot-finished prod­
uct can be different from those of cold-finished, cold-drawn, or 
cold-rolled product. 
hot quenching, n-an imprecise term used to cover a variety 
of quenching procedures in which the quenching medium is 
maintained at a prescribed temperature above 160 °F or 
70 °C. 
hot working, n-mechanical deformation of a metal at tem­
peratures above its recrystallization temperature. 
imperfection, n-a material discontinuity or irregularity that is 
detectable by inspection. 
inclusion shape control, n-the addition of elements during 
steel making in order to affect the inclusion morphology. 
induction hardening, n-in surface hardening, a process in 
which only the surface layer of a suitable steel object is 
heated by electrical induction to above Ac 3 or Ac 0 m, and then 
the object is quenched. 
induction hardening, n-in through hardening, a process in 
which a suitable steel object is heated by electrical induction 
to above Ac 3 or Ac 0 m throughout its section, and then the 
object is quenched. 
1383 