SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
and cooling rates) specified in the order. The test results for 
such heat-treated test specimens shall meet the applicable 
product specification requirements. 
S4. Additional Tension Test 
S4.1 Plate-One tension test shall be made from each unit 
plate rolled from a slab or directly from an ingot, • except that 
for quenched and tempered plates, a test shall be taken from 
each unit plate heat treated. The results obtained shall be 
reported on the mill test reports when such tests are required by 
the order. 
SS. Charpy V-Notch Impact Test 
S5. l Charpy V-notch impact tests shall be conducted in 
accordance with Specification A673/A673M. 
S5.2 The frequency of testing, the test temperature to be 
used, and the absorbed energy requirements shall be as 
specified on the order. 
S6. Drop-Weight Test (for Material 0.625 in. [16 mm] and 
Over in Thickness) 
S6.1 Drop-weight tests shall be made in accordance with 
Test Method E208. The specimens shall represent the material 
in the final condition of heat treatment. Agreement shall be 
reached between the purchaser and the manufacturer or pro­
cessor as to the number of pieces to be tested and whether a 
maximum nil-ductility transition (NDT) temperature is man­
datory or if the test results are for information only. 
SS. Ultrasonic Examination 
S8. l The material shall be ultrasonically examined in ac­
cordance with the requirements specified on the order. 
S15. Reduction of Area Measurement 
Sl5.l The reduction of area, as determined on the 0.500-in. 
[12.5-mm] diameter round tension test specimen in accordance 
with Test Methods and Definitions A370, shall not be less than 
40%. 
30 
SlS. Maximum Tensile Strength 
S18.l Steel having a specified minimum tensile strength of 
less than 70 ksi [485 MPa] shall not exceed the minimum 
specified tensile strength by more than 30 ksi [205 MPa]. 
S18.2 Steel having a minimum specified tensile strength of 
70 ksi [485 MPa] or higher shall not exceed the minimum 
specified tensile strength by more than 25 ksi [170 MPa]. 
S23. Copper-Bearing Steel (for improved atmospheric cor-
rosion resistance) 
S23. l The copper content shall be a minimum of 0.20 % on 
heat analysis, 0.18 on product analysis. 
S26. Subdivided Material-Marking of Individual Pieces 
S26.1 Subdivided pieces shall be individually identified by 
marking, stenciling, or die stamping the applicable product 
specification designation (year-date not required), grade, heat 
number, and the heat treatment identification, if applicable, 
along with the trademark, brand, or name of the organization 
that subdivided the structural product. As an alternative, 
individual subdivided pieces shall be identified by a code 
traceable to the original required identification, provided that 
the trademark, name, or brand of the organization that subdi­
vided the structural product is also placed on the structural 
product and the original required identification, cross refer­
enced on the code, is furnished with the structural product. 
S27. Restrictive Plate Flatness 
S27 .1 As-rolled or normalized carbon steel plates ordered to 
restrictive flatness shall conform to the permitted variations 
from a flat surface given in Table S27.1 or Table S27.2, 
whichever is applicable. 
S27.2 As-rolled or normalized high-strength low-alloy steel 
plates ordered to restrictive flatness shall conform to the 
permitted variations from a flat surface given in Table S27 .3 or 
Table S27 .4, whichever is applicable. 