SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
induction heating, n-heating by electrical induction. 
inspection, n-the process of measuring, examining, testing, 
gaging, or otherwise comparing the unit of product with the 
applicable requirements. 
intermediate annealing, n-annealing wrought steel objects 
at one or more stages during manufacture prior to final 
thermal treatment. 
interrupted aging, n-aging at two or more temperatures, by 
steps, and cooling to room temperature after each step. 
interrupted quenching, n-quenching in which the object 
being quenched is removed from the quenching medium 
while the object is at a temperature substantially higher than 
that of the quenching medium. 
interstitial-free steel, n-a steel that has essentially all of its 
carbon and nitrogen chemically combined with stabilization 
elements rather than being present interstitially. 
D1scussION-The heat analysis limits (minimum or maximum, or 
both) that are permitted to be prescribed in interstitial-free steel 
. specifications are as given in the definition for carbon steel, except that 
the 0.050 % maximum limit for titanium does not apply. 
isothermal annealing, n-austenitizing a steel object and 
then cooling it to, and holding it at, a temperature at which 
austenite transforms to a ferrite-carbide aggregate. 
isothermal transformation, n-a change in phase at any 
constant temperature. 
killed steel, n-a steel deoxidized to such a level that essen­
tially no reaction occurred between carbon and oxygen 
during solidification. 
laser beam welding, n-a welding process that uses a laser 
beam as the heat source. 
lot, n-a definite quantity of product manufactured under 
conditions that are considered uniform. 
low-alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a carbon steel or an 
interstitial-free steel, that conforms to a specification that 
requires the minimum content for each specified alloying 
element to be lower than the applicable limit in the definition 
for alloy steel. 
Mp M 8 -See transformation temperature. 
manufacturer, n-the organization responsible for the conver­
sion of materials into products meeting the requirements of 
a product specification. 
maraging, n-a precipitation hardening treatment applied to a 
special group of alloy steels to precipitate one or more 
intermetallic compounds in a matrix of essentially carbon­
free martensite. 
martempering, n-quenching an austenitized steel object in a 
medium at a temperature in the upper part of, or slightly 
above, the martensite range, holding it in the medium until 
its temperature is substantially uniform throughout, and then 
cooling it in air through the martensite range. 
martensite range, n-the temperature interval between M 8 and 
~-
microalloyed steel, n-a low-alloy steel that conforms to a 
specification that requires the presence of one or more 
carbide-, nitride-, or carbonitride-forming elements, gener­
ally in individual concentrations less than 0.15 mass percent, 
to enhance strength. 
DiscussION-The most common microalloying elements are niobium 
(columbium), titanium, and vanadium. 
multiple heat, n-two or more molten primary heats, in 
whole or in part, combined in a common ladle or in a 
common non-oscillating mold. 
DiscussION-A multiple heat is identified by a single heat number 
representative of the multiple heat, or by the individual heat numbers 
of the primary heats contained in the multiple heat. The heat 
analysis of a multiple heat identified by a single heat number is the 
weighted average analysis of the individual primary heats contained in 
the multiple heat. Two or more molten primary heats sequentially 
strand cast (poured- into an oscillating mold) constitute a series of 
individual heats, not a multiple heat. 
natural aging, n-spontaneous aging of a super-saturated solid 
solution at room temperature. 
nickel alloy, n-a material that conforms to a specification that 
requires by mass percent more nickel than any other ele­
ment. 
DiscussION-ln castings, the nickel content requirement is not 
normally stated in the specification and is not normally determined by 
chemical analysis, but is taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean 
values permitted by the specification for all other elements having a 
specified range or a specified maximum. 
nitriding, n-introducing nitrogen into a solid steel object by 
holding it at a suitable temperature in contact with a 
nitrogenous environment. 
nonferrous material, n-metals and alloys that do not contain 
iron as the principal component. 
DiscussION-The iron content is not always stated in the specification 
and is not always determined by chemical analysis. The iron content 
may be taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, the mean value for 
iron, whether specified or calculated, is compared on an individual 
basis to the mean values permitted by the specification for each of the 
other elements having a specified range or a specified maximum. If an 
element other than iron is not specified, but is listed as remainder or 
balance, then, for conformance purposes, the mean value for iron is 
compared to the calculated value for that other element. 
normalizing, v-reheating a steel object to a temperature 
above the transformation range and then cooling it in air to 
a temperature substantially below the transformation range 
to achieve both grain refinement and improved homogeni­
zation. 
overaging, n-aging under conditions of time and temperature 
greater than those required to obtain maximum change in a 
certain prope1ty, so that the property is altered away from the 
maximum. 
overheating, n-heating a steel object to such a high tempera­
ture that excessive grain growth occurs. 
1384 