SA-278/SA-278M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
, ' l I 
t 
' 
I I 
I I t I 
I I f I 
I ' I f I 
' 
I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I 
' 
I I I 
I I I J I t I 
"·-'"' 
\..,_J 
...-w-+) () 1--w---f O ,- .. 
Number of test bars in a single mold-2 suggested. 
L-see Table 1. 
D-see Table 1. 
W-not less than diameter, D. 
: I , ' J I 
I I 
' ' ' ' l ' I f 
,._ __ ) 
P-2 in. (50-mm) suggested 
N- 5/10 in. (8-mm) in diameter, suggested 
M-1.5 N, suggested 
FIG. 1 Suitable Design and Dimensions for Mold for Separately Cast Cylindrical Test Bars for Gray Iron 
11. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
11.1 All castings shall be made in a workmanlike manner 
and shall confom1 to the dimensions on drawings furnished by 
the purchaser. If the pattern is supplied by the purchaser 
without drawings, the dimensions of the casting shall be as 
predicted by the pattern. 
11.2 The surface of the casting shall be free of adhering 
sand, scale, cracks, and hot tears as determined by visual 
examination. Other surface discontinuities shall meet the visual 
acceptance standards specified in the order. 
12. Sampling 
12.1 A lot shall consist of one of the following: 
12.l.l AH the metal poured from a single heating in a batch 
type melting ft.u-nace, 
12.1.2 All the metal from two or more batch type melting 
furnaces poured into a single ladle or single casting, or 
12.1.3 All the metal poured from a continuous melting 
furnace for a given peliod of time between changes in charge, 
processing conditions, or aim-for chemistry or 4 h, whichever 
is the shorter period. 
12.1.3.1 The purchaser may agree to extend the 4-h time 
period to 8 h if the manufacturer can demonstrate sufficient 
process control to warrant such an extension. 
13. Tension Test Specimens 
13.1 Tension test specimens A and B in Fig. 2 shall be 
machined from test bars A and B in Table 1, respectively. 
13.2 The purchaser shall specify whether test specimen B or 
C is to be machined from test bar C. If no choice is made, the 
manufacturer shall make the selection. 
13.3 The size of the test specimen to be machined from test 
bar S shall be as agreed upon between the manufacturer and 
purchaser. 
420 
14. Number of Tests and Retests 
14.l One tension test shall be pe1formed on each lot in 
accordance with Test Method ES and conform to the tensile 
requirements specified. 
14.2 If the results of a valid test fail to conform to the 
requirements of this specification, two retests shall be made. If 
either retest fails to meet the specification requirements, the 
castings represented by these test specimens shall be rejected. 
14.3 If, after testing, a test specimen shows evidence of a 
defect, the results of the test may be invalidated and another 
made on a specimen from the same lot. 
15. Repair 
15.1 Any repairs performed on castings produced to this 
specification shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. 
16. Certification 
16.1 When requested by the purchaser, the manufacturer 
shall furnish his certification stating that the matelial was 
manufactured, sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance 
with this specification including the year date. The certification 
shall also include the results of all tests performed. 
16.2 A signature is not required on the certification. How­
ever, the document shall clearly identify the organization 
submitting the certification and the authorized agent of the 
manufacturer who certified the test results. Notwithstanding 
the absence of a signature, the organization submitting the 
certification is responsible for its content. 
17. Inspection 
17. l All tests and inspections required by this specification 
shall be pe1fom1ed by nhe manufacturer or other reliable 
sources whose services have been contracted for by the 