SA-556/SA-556M (ASTM A556/A556M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
the dimensional requirements and does not cause triggering of 
ultrasonic alarm system upon retesting shall be considered as 
having met the requirements of this supplement. 
S2. Nondestructive Ultrasonic Test-Round Tubing (Select 
Commercial Grade) 
S2.1 The manufacturer shall test the tubing using the 
procedure outlined in Supplementary Requirement Sl, except 
for the notch depth, which shall be 5 % of wall thickness in 
depth but not less than 0.004 in. [0.10 mm]. Tolerance on depth 
shall be +0.000 in. or -0.0005 in. [0.01 mm]. 
S3. Nondestructive Eddy-Current Test 
S3.1 Each tube shall be tested after the finish heat treatment 
following the final cold-draw pass by passing through an 
electric nondestructive tester capable of detecting defects on 
the entire cross section of the tube. Suitable instrumentation 
shall be used to clearly distinguish aiiificial defects or refer­
ence notches. Tubes to be tested shall be reasonably straight 
and the outside and inside diameter surfaces shall be free of 
loose scale, metallic particles, or other material which would 
tend to restrict signals or create electlical noise. The tubing 
shall be inspected by feeding longitudinally through an inspec­
tion coil or coils of a diameter suitable for the diameter of 
tubing to be inspected. The instrument calibration shall be 
accomplished with a reference standard prepared from an 
appropriate length of selected tubing of the same size, grade, 
and physical condition as the material to be inspected. The 
standard shall be fed through the coil at the same speed at 
which the inspection of the tubing is performed. The following 
factors shall be selected or adjusted, or both, in accordance 
with the instrument manufacturer's instructions for the paiiicu­
lar instrument involved as required to achieve optimum instru­
ment distinction between the reference defects and plain 
portion of the tube. These as well as other factors involved 
shall not be used in such a manner that they detract from the 
instrument's overall ability to detect injurious defects: 
S3 .1.1 Test frequency, 
S3.l.2 Direct-current saturation level, 
S3. l.3 Filter networks, 
S3.l.4 Phase analysis circuits, 
S3.l.5 Coil diameter, and 
S3.l.6 Instrument gain. 
S3.2 The reference standard shall contain longitudinal and 
circumferential notches in the outside diameter and shall be 
used to establish the rejection level for the tubing to be tested. 
Inside diameter notches, both longitudinal and circumferential, 
shall also be a part of the reference standard. These notches 
may be larger than outside diameter notches and ai·e intended 
for use only to assure instrument phase settings capable of 
yielding optimum inside diameter surface sensitivity. The 
outside diameter reference notches shall have a depth equal to 
10 % of the wall thickness. The tolerance of the notch shall be 
±8 % or 0.0005 in. [0.01 mm], whichever is greater. Width of 
notch shall not exceed twice the depth. The length of the 
reference notches shall not exceed 0.375 in. [9.5 mm]. All 
tubing including that which may be reconditioned, provided 
the dimensional or other properties of the tubing are not 
adversely affected and provided the tubing does not show 
indications above the level determined by the outside diameter 
references, shall meet this specification provided the instru­
ment calibration is verified by indicating the standard outside 
diameter reference notches of a given lot. Tubes generating a 
signal above the calibration standard sensitivity level shall be 
rejected. Tubes may be reconditioned if not adversely affecting 
the dimensional or other properties of the tube and so tested as 
to assure a satisfactory tube within the limits of this specifica­
tion. All tubing shall be demagnetized after inspection has been 
completed. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Committee _AQ 1 _h_as. identified 1he la.cation_ oLselected changes-to-this specifiGati0n sin Ge the-last-issae­
(A556/ A556M - 96 (2012)) that may impact the use of this standard. (Approved Sept. 1, 2018.) 
(1) Substituted Test Methods A751 for obsolete Test Methods 
E30. 
(2) Changed hardness test indenter designation and reporting 
style. 
ASTM International takes no position respecting the validity of any patent rights asserted in connection with any item mentioned 
in this standard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of the validity of any such patent rights, and the risk 
of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. 
This standard is subject to revision at any time by the responsible technical committee and must be reviewed every five years and 
if not revised, either reapproved or withdrawn. Your comments are invited either for revision of this standard or for additional standards 
and should be addressed to ASTM International Headquarters. Your comments will receive careful consideration at a meeting of the 
responsible technical committee, which you may attend. If you feel that your comments have not received a fair hearing you should 
make your views known to the ASTM Committee on Standards, at the address shown below. 
This standard is copyrighted by ASTN/ International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, 
United States. Individual reprints (single or multiple copies) of this standard may be obtained by contacting ASTM at the above 
address or at 610-832-9585 (phone}, 610-832-9555 (fax}, or service@astm.org (e-mail}; or through the ASTM website 
(www.astm.org). Permission rights to photocopy the standard may also be secured from the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, Tel: (978) 646-2600; http://www.copyright.com/ 
948 