SA-135/SA-135M (ASTM A135/ A135M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
order, the heat analyses shall be reported to the purchaser or a 
representative of the purchaser. 
7. Product Analysis 
7 .1 An analysis may be made by the purchaser on samples 
of pipe selected at random and shall conform to the require­
ments specified in Table 2. Methods and practices relating to 
chemical analysis shall be in accordance with Test Method, 
Practices, and Terminology A751. 
8. Mechanical Properties Requirements 
8.1 Tensile Properties: 
8.1.1 The material shall conform to the requirements as to 
tensile properties prescribed in Table 1. 
8.1.2 The yield strength shall be determined by the offset 
method utilizing 0.2 % of the gauge length or by the total 
extension under load method using 0.5 % of the gauge length. 
8.1.3 Longitudinal test specimens shall be full-size longitu­
dinal test specimens (see Figure A2.1 of Test Methods and 
Definitions A370) or longitudinal strip test specimens (see 
Specimen No. 4 in Fig. A2.3 of Test Methods and Definitions 
A370). 
8.2 The test specimen taken across the weld shall show a 
tensile strength not less than the minimum tensile strength 
specified for the grade of pipe ordered. This test will not be 
required for pipe under NPS 8 [DN 200]. 
9. Flattening Test 
9.1 A specimen at least 4 in. [100 mm] in length shall be 
flattened cold between parallel plates in three steps with the 
weld located either 0° or 90° from the line of direction of force 
as required in 9.2. During the first step, which is a test for 
ductility of the weld, no cracks or breaks on the inside or 
outside surfaces shall occur before the distance between the 
plates is less than two thirds of the original outside diameter of 
the pipe. As a second step, the flattening shall be continued. 
During the second step, which is a test for ductility exclusive 
of the weld, no cracks or breaks on the inside or outside 
surfaces shall occur before the distance between the plates is 
less than one third of the original outside diameter of the pipe 
but is not less than five times the wall thickness of the pipe. 
During the third step, which is a test for soundness, the 
flattening shall be continued until the specimen breaks or the 
opposite walls of the pipe meet. Evidence of laminated or 
unsound material or of incomplete weld that is revealed during 
the entire flattening test shall be cause for rejection. 
9 .2 For pipe produced in single lengths, the flattening test 
specified in 9 .1 shall be made on both crop ends cut from each 
iength of pipe. The tests from each end shall be made 
alternately with the weld at 0° and at 90° from the line of 
direction of force. For pipe produced in multiple lengths, the 
flattening test shall be made on crop ends representing the front 
and back of each coil with the weld at 90° from the line of 
direction of force, and on two intermediate rings representing 
each coil with the weld 0° from the line of direction of force. 
188 
9 .3 Surface imperfections in the test specimen before 
flattening, but revealed during the first step of the flattening 
test, shall be judged in accordance with the finish requirements 
in Section 13. 
9 .4 Superficial cracks as a result of surface imperfections 
shall not be cause for rejection. 
10. Hydrostatic Test 
10.1 Except as provided for in 10.3, each length of pipe 
shall be hydrostatically tested at the mill, without leakage 
through the wall, to a pressure calculated from the following 
equation: 
P = 2St/D 
where: 
P = minimum hydrostatic test pressure, psi, [kPa]. The test 
pressure need not exceed 2500 psi [17 200 kPa], 
S = allowable fiber stress 18 000 psi [124 000 kPa] for 
Grade A and 21 000 psi [145 000 kPa] for Grade B. 
This does not prohibit testing at higher pressure at the 
manufacturer's option, 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], and 
D = specified outside diameter, in. [mm]. 
Plain end pipe may be tested at the discretion of the 
manufacturer in single lengths or in multiple lengths. 
10.2 The hydrostatic pressure shall be maintained for not 
less than 5 s. 
10.3 When specified in the order, pipe may be furnished 
without hydrostatic testing, and each length so furnished shall 
include with the mandatory marking the letters "NH." 
Nam 3-This provision is not intended to apply to light wall (Schedule 
10) pipe listed in Table Xl.1. 
10.4 When certification is required by the purchaser and the 
hydrostatic test has been omitted, the certification shall clearly 
state "Not Hydrostatically Tested." The specification number 
and material grade, as shown on the certification, shall be 
followed by the letters "NH." 
11. Nondestructive Examination Reqnirements 
11.1 As an alternate to the hydrostatic test, and when 
accepted by the purchaser, each pipe shall be tested with a 
nondestructive electric test. Except for pipe produced on a 
hot-stretch reducing mill, the weld seam of each length of pipe 
shall be tested with a nondestructive test in accordance with 
Practices E213, E273, E309, or E570. Each length of pipe 
produced on a hot-stretch-reducing mill shall be tested with a 
nondestructive electric test that inspects the full volume of the 
pipe in accordance with Practices E213, E309, or E570. 
11.2 Recognized methods for meeting this test are electro­
magnetic (eddy current) or ultrasonic. 
11.3 The following information is for the benefit of the user 
of this specification: 
11.3.1 The ultrasonic examination referred to in this speci­
fication is intended to detect longitudinal imperfections having 
a reflective area similar to or larger than the reference notch. 