ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-985/SA-985M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following standardized supplementary requirements are for use when desired by the 
purchaser and when allowed by and listed in the individual specifications. They shall not 
apply unless specified in the order, in which event the specified tests shall be made by the 
manufacturer before shipment of the castings. 
S1. Unspecified Elements 
S1.1 Limits may be established for elements not speci­
fied for the grade ordered by agreement between the manu­
facturer and purchaser. The results of the analysis for the 
agreed upon elements shall be reported. 
S2. Destruction Tests 
S2.1 Purchaser may select representative castings from 
each heat and cut up and etch, or otherwise prepare, the 
sections for examination for internal defects. Should injuri­
ous defects be found that evidence unsound steel or faulty 
foundry technique, all of the castings made from that partic­
ular pattern, heat, and heat treatment charge may be 
rejected. All other rejected castings, including those cut 
up, shall be replaced by the manufacturer without charge. 
S3. Bend Test 
S3.1 One bend test shall be made from a test coupon 
from each master heat in accordance with Test Methods 
and Definitions A 370, and shall be machined to 1 by ½ in. 
[25 by 13 mm] section with corners rounded to a radius 
not over ½ 6 in. [1.6 mm]. 
S3.2 The specimen shall withstand being bent longitu­
dinally at room temperature through an angle of 90° about 
a pin, the diameter of which shall be the specimen thiclmess 
for carbon steels, and 1 in. [25 mm] for other steels. The 
specimen shall show no cracks on the outside of the bent 
portion of the specimen. 
S3.3 Bend test specimens may be cut from heat-treated 
castings instead of from test bars when agreed upon 
between manufacturer and purchaser. 
S3.4 If any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws, it may be discarded and another specimen 
substituted from the same heat. 
S4. Magnetic Particle Inspection 
S4.1 Castings shall be examined for surface and near­
surface discontinuities by magnetic particle inspection. The 
examination shall be in accordance with Guide E 709, and 
types and degrees of discontinuities considered shall be 
judged by the Reference Photographs E 125. Extent of 
examination, time of examination, and basis for acceptance 
shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and pur­
chaser. Specification, which may be used as a basis for 
such agreement, are Specifications A 903/ A 903M and 
MSS SP 53. 
S4.2 Personnel performing the examination shall be 
qualified in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S5. Radiographic Inspection 
S5.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects 
by means of X rays or gamma rays. The procedure shall 
be in accordance with Guide E 94 and types and degrees 
of discontinuities considered shall be judged by Reference 
Radiographs E 186, E 192, E 280, or E 446. Extent of 
examination and basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and purchaser. A specification 
that may be used as a basis for such agreement is MSS 
SP 54. 
S5.2 Radiographic examination of castings may be per­
formed before or after any heat treatment. 
S5.3 Personnel performing the examination shall be 
qualified in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S6. Liquid Penetrant Inspection 
S6.1 Castings shall be examined for surface discontinu­
ities by means ofliquid penetrant inspection. The examina­
tion shall be in accordance with Test Method E 165. Areas 
to be inspected, time of inspection, methods and types of 
liquid penetrants to be used, developing procedure, and 
basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. A specification, which may 
be used as a basis for such agreement, is A 903 / A 903M. 
S6.2 Personnel performing the examination shall be 
qualified in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S7. Ultrasonic Inspection 
S7.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects 
by means of ultrasonic inspection. The inspection proce­
dure shall be in accordance with Practice A 609 / A 609M. 
1443 