ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-264 
4.1. 7 Mechanical properties, including shear test if required. 
4.1.8 Finish (see Section 12). 
4.1.9 Restrictions, if required, on repair by welding (see 
Section 14). 
4.1.10 Additions to the specification or special requirements 
such as any applicable construction code rules. 
4.1.11 Corrosion testing if applicable. 
4.1.12 Notification when the cladding alloy is to be used for 
inclusion in the design strength calculations for an applicable 
construction code. 
NoTE I-Construction codes may dictate certain fabrication require­
ments when the cladding is used in the design calculations that may be 
different than if the cladding is used for corrosion resistance only. This 
may be particularly important when the alloy cladding involves the use of 
welded components in the explosion bonded clad manufactming process. 
It is incumbent on the purchaser to make the clad manufacturer aware of 
any such restrictions or applications at time of order. 
4.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this specification 
and the backing steel specification, certain supplementary 
requirements are available when additional control, testing, or 
examination is required to meet end use requirements. The 
purchaser is referred to the listed supplementary requirements 
in this specification and to the detailed requirements in 
Specification A20/ A20M. 
4.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4.4 Special tests. 
5. Materials and Manufacture 
5.1 Process: 
5.1.1 The steel shall be made by the open-hearth, electric­
fumace, or basic-oxygen processes, or by secondary processes 
whereby steel made from these primary processes is remelted 
using, but not limited to electroslag remelting or vacuum-arc 
remelting processes. 
5.1.2 The alloy-cladding metal inay be metallurgically 
bonded to the base metal by any method that will produce a 
clad steel that will conform to the requirements of this 
specification. 
5.1.3 For explosively bonded products, the alloy cladding 
metal may be comprised of two or more separate alloy plates 
or sheets completely welded together to form a single fabri­
cated component. 
5.2 Heat Treatment: 
5.2.1 Unless otherwise specified or agreed upon between 
the purchaser and the manufacturer, all austenitic stainless steel 
clad plates shall be given a heat treatment consisting of heating 
to the proper temperature for the solution of the chromium 
carbides in the cladding followed by individual air cooling. For 
base metals of air-hardening low-alloy steels the above heat 
treatment shall be followed by a tempering treatment. In the 
case of clad plate manufactured without hot rolling, the base 
metal and alloy cladding components may be heat treated 
separately as appropriate prior to bonding. 
5.2.2 Duplex stainless steel clad plates shall be provided in 
a heat treated condition as agreed upon between the purchaser 
and the manufacturer. 
5.2.3 When plates are to be cold formed, or when otherwise 
required by the base metal specification, the purchaser may 
specify that such plates, following solution annealing, be heat 
treated for grain refinement of the base metal by normalizing 
and either air cooled or water quenched as appropriate. 
6. Chemical Composition 
6.1 The composite plate may conform to any desired com­
bination of alloy-cladding metal and base metal as described in 
6.2 and 6.3 and as agreed upon between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer. 
6.2 Alloy Cladding Metal-The alloy-cladding metal speci­
fied shall conform to the requirements as to chemical compo­
sition prescribed for the respective chromium-nickel or duplex 
steel in Specification A240/A240M. 
6.3 Base Metal-The base metal shall be carbon steel or 
low-alloy steel conforming to the ASTM specifications for 
steel for pressure vessels, or other, as agreed by the purchaser 
and the manufacturer. The base metal shall conform to the 
chemical requirements of the specification to which it is 
ordered. 
7. Mechanical Properties 
7.1 Tensile Requirements: 
7 .1.1 The tensile properties shall be determined by a 
tension test of the composite plate for clad plates that meet all 
of the following conditions. 
(1) The composite gage is less than or equal to 1 ½ in. (38 
mm). 
(2) The specified minimum tensile strength of the base 
steel is less than or equal to 70 000 psi ( 485 MPa) 
381 
( 3) The specified minimum yield strength of the base steel 
is less than or equal to 40 000 psi (275 MPa). 
( 4) The tensile properties thus determined shall be not less 
than the minimum and not more than 5000 psi (35 MPa) over 
the maximum prescribed in the specification for the base steel 
used: All other tensile test requirements of the specification for 
the base steel shall be met. 
7.1.2 The tensile properties shall be determined by a 
tension test of the base steel only for clad plates that meet one 
of the following conditions. The properties thus determined 
shall meet all of the tensile test requirements for the base steel. 
( 1) The composite gage is greater than 1 ½ in. (38 mm). 
(2) The specified minimum tensile strength of the base 
steel is greater than 70 000 psi (485 MPa). 
( 3) The specified minimum yield strength of the base steel 
is greater than 40 000 psi (275 MPa). 
7.1.3 If the cladding is for corrosion allowance only, the 
cladding need not be included in the tensile test. The tensile 
properties thus determined shall meet the base steel require­
ments. 
7 .2 Tests for strength of the bond, when required, must be 
specified by the purchaser and shall consist of one of the 
following. 
7.2.1 Shear Strength-When required by the purchaser, the 
minimum shear strength of the alloy cladding and base metals 
shall be 20 000 psi (140 MPa). The shear test, when specified, 
shall be made in the manner indicated in Fig. 1. The minimum 