SA-336/SA-336M (ASTM A336/A336M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
8.2.1.1 Except as provided for liquid quenched and tem­
pered forgings in 8.2.1.3, the longitudinal axis of the specimen 
shall be located midway between the parallel surfaces of the 
test extension if added to the periphery of disks or midway 
between the center and surface of solid forgings. For hollow 
forgings, or those heat-treated after boring, the specimen shall 
be located at midwall. For the special case of forgings that are 
heat-treated solid, but are subsequently bored, the tension test 
specimen may be taken at the location of the minimum inside 
diameter after boring instead of the mid-radius position. When 
separately forged test blocks are employed, as defined in 8.2.3, 
the tension test specimens shall be taken from a location that 
represents the mid wall of the heaviest section of the production 
forgings. When specimens are required from opposite ends, 
they shall be taken from the diagonal corners of an axial plane. 
Alternatively, and when specified by the purchaser, the speci­
mens shall be taken in accordance with Supplementary Re­
quirement S3. 
8.2.1.2 For liquid quenched and tempered forgings, the test 
specimens shall have their longitudinal axis at least ¼ T of the 
maximum heat-treated thickness from any surface and with the 
mid-length of the specimens at least one T from any second 
surface. This is normally referred to as ¼ T x T, where Tis the 
maximum heat-treated thiclmess. A thermal buffer may be used 
to adhere to the above condition. 
8.2.1.3 For liquid quenched and tempered forgings with 
prior purchaser approval, test specimens may be taken at a 
depth (t) corresponding to the distance from the area of 
significant stress to the nearest heat-treated surface and at least 
twice this distance (2 t) from any second surface. However, the 
test depth shall not be nearer to one heat-treated surface than 
¾ in. [19 mm] and to the second treated surface than 1 ½ in. 
[38 mm]. This method of test specimen location normally 
(lmown as tx2t testing) applies to thick and complex pressure 
vessel components where the testing in accordance with 8.2.1.2 
is not practical. Sketches showing the proposed exact test 
locations shall be approved by the purchaser when this method 
is used. 
8.2.2 Except as specified in this specification, tests for 
acceptance shall be made after heat treatment has been 
completed in accordance with Section 6. When the ends of the 
cylindrical forgings are closed in by reforging, the cylindrical 
forgings may be normalized and tempered or annealed and 
tested before reforging. After reforging, the entire forging shall 
be reheat-treated in the same manner and at the same tempera­
ture range as employed when the forging was heat-treated 
before certification testing. 
8.2.3 When mutually agreed upon between the manufac­
turer and the purchaser, test specimens may be machined from 
a specially forged block suitably worked and heat-treated with 
the production forgings. Such a special block shall be obtained 
from an ingot, slab, or billet from the same heat used to make 
the forgings it represents. This block shall receive essentially 
the same type of hot-working and forging reduction as the 
production forgings; however, a longitudinally forged bar with 
dimensions not less than T x T x 3T may be used to represent 
a ring forging. The dimension T shall be representative of the 
heaviest effective cross section of the forging. For quenched 
522 
and tempered forgings for which tests are required at both ends 
by 8.3.2.3 and 8.3.2.4, separately forged test blocks are not 
allowed. 
NoTE 1-In using separately forged test blocks, attention is drawn to the 
effect of mass differences between the production forgings and the test 
blocks. This can be particularly significant when forgings are either 
normalized and tempered or quenched and tempered. 
8.3 Number and Location of Tests-The number and loca­
tion of tests are based on forging length, weight, and heat 
treatment and shall be as prescribed below. The length and 
weight to be used for this purpose shall be the length and 
weight at the time of heat treatment. 
8.3.1 Annealed or Normalized and Tempered Forgings: 
8.3.1.1 For forgings weighing 5000 lb [2250 kg] or less at 
the time of heat treatment, one tension test shall be taken from 
one forging per heat, per heat treatment charge. When heat 
treatment is performed in continuous type furnaces with 
suitable temperature controls and equipped with recording 
pyrometers so that complete heat treatment records are 
available, a tempering charge may be considered as any 
continuous run not exceeding an 8 h period. 
8.3.1.2 For forgings and forged bars weighing over 5000 lb 
[2250 kg] at the time of heat treatment, one tension test shall be 
taken from each forging. 
8.3.2 Quenched and Tempered Forgings: 
8.3.2.1 For quenched and tempered forgings weighing 
5000 lb [2250 kg] or less at the time of heat treatment, but not 
exceeding 12 ft [3.7 m] in length, one tension test shall be 
taken from one forging per heat, per heat treatment charge. 
When heat treatment is performed in continuous type furnaces 
with suitable temperature controls and equipped with recording 
pyrometers so that complete heat treatment records are 
available, a tempering charge may be considered as any 
continuous run not exceeding an 8 h period. 
8.3.2.2 For quenched and tempered forgings and forged bars 
weighing over 5000 lb to 10 000 lb [2250 kg to 4500 kg] at the 
time of heat treatment, but not exceeding 12 ft [3.7 m] in 
length, one tension test shall be taken from each forging. 
8.3.2.3 Quenched and tempered forgings that exceed 12 ft 
[3.7 m] in length shall be tension tested at both ends of the 
forging under test. 
8.3.2.4 For quenched and tempered forgings and forged bars 
weighing more than 10 000 lb [ 4500 kg] at the time of heat 
treatment, two tension test specimens shall be taken from each 
forging. These shall be offset 180° from each other except that 
if the length of the forging, excluding test prolongations, 
exceeds 12 ft [3.7 m], then one specimen shall be taken from 
each end of the forging. 
8.4 Notch Toughness Requirements-Grades FJV, FJVCb, 
F22V, and F6NM: 
8.4.1 Impact test specimens shall be Charpy V-notch, as 
shown in Test Methods and Definitions A370. The usage of 
subsize specimens due to material limitations must have prior 
purchaser approval. 
8.4.2 The Charpy V-notch test specimens shall be obtained 
as required for tension tests in 8.1 and 8.3. One set of three 
Charpy V-notch specimens shall be taken from each tensile 
specimen location. 