SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
cold working, n-mechanical deformation of a metal at 
temperatures below its recrystallization temperature. 
cold treatment, n-exposing a steel object to temperatures 
below room temperature for the purpose of obtaining desired 
conditions or properties, such as dimensional or structural 
stability. 
conditioning heat treatment, n-a preliminary heat treat­
ment used to prepare a steel object for a desired reaction to 
a subsequent heat treatment. 
continuous-conveyance furnace, n-a heating device through 
which steel objects are intentionally moved at a constant rate 
during the thermal processing cycle. 
controlled cooling, n-cooling a steel object from an elevated 
temperature in a predetermined manner to avoid hardening, 
cracking, or intema1 damage, or to produce a desired 
microstructure or mechanical properties. 
controlling cross section thickness (Tc), n-diameter of the 
largest theoretical sphere that can be inscribed within the 
volume of the component. 
Drscuss10N-The controlling cross section thickness (Tc) is used to 
determine the size of prolongations, test blocks, or representative test 
pieces. It is calculated based on the dimensions of the component at the 
time of heat treatment. Where components are heat treated with internal 
diameters the calculation is made based on the wall thickness. 
core, n-in case hardening, the interior portion of unaltered 
composition or microstructure, or both, of a case hardened 
steel object. 
core, n-in clad products, the central portion of a multilayer 
composite metallic material. 
critical cooling rate, n-the slowest rate of continuous cooling 
at which austenite can be cooled from above the transfor­
mation range to prevent its transformation above M •. 
cycle annealing, n-annealing employing a predetermined 
and closely controlled time-temperature cycle to produce 
specific properties or a specific microstructure. 
decarburization, n-the loss of carbon from the surface of a 
steel object as a result of its being heated in a medium that 
reacts with the carbon. 
defect, n-an imperfection of sufficient magnitude to warrant 
rejection based on the specified requirements. 
differential heating, n-heating that intentionally produces a 
temperature gradient within a steel object such that, after 
cooling, a desired stress distribution or variation in proper­
ties is present within the object. 
diffusion coating, n-any process whereby a base metal is 
either coated with another metal and heated to a sufficient 
temperature in a suitable environment, or exposed to a 
gaseous or liquid medium containing the other metal, 
thereby causing diffusion of the coating or other metal into 
the base metal, with a resultant change in the composition 
and properties of its surface. 
direct quenching, n-in thermochemical processing, quench­
ing immediately following the thermochemical treatment. 
direct quenching, n-in thermomechanical processing, 
quenching immediately following the final hot deformation. 
document, n-a written, printed, or electronic record that 
provides information, evidence, or official statements. 
double aging, n-employment of two different aging 
treatments, in sequence, to control the type of precipitate 
formed from a supersaturated alloy matrix in order to obtain 
the desired properties. 
Drscuss10N-The first aging treatment, sometimes referred to as 
intermediate or stabilizing, is usually carried out at a higher tempera­
ture than the second. 
double tempering, n-a treatment in which a quench­
hardened steel object is given two complete tempering 
cycles at substantially the same temperature for the purpose 
of ensuring completion of the tempering reaction and pro­
moting stability of the resultant microstructure. 
electronic data interchange, n-the computer to computer 
exchange of business information in a standardized format. 
ellipsis, n-in a tabular entry, three periods ( ... ) that indicate 
that there is no requirement. 
ferritizing anneal, n-a heat treatment that produces a 
predominantly ferritic matrix in a steel object. 
ferroalloy, n-an alloy of iron and one or more other metals, 
for use as an addition to the molten metal during the 
manufacture of steels, nickel alloys, or cobalt alloys. 
ferrous material, n-metals and alloys that contain iron as the 
principal component. 
D1scussmN-The iron content is not always stated in the specification 
and is not always determined by chemical analysis. The iron content 
may be taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, the mean value for 
iron, whether specified or calculated, is compared on an individual 
basis to the mean values permitted by the specification for each of the 
other elements having a specified range or a specified maximum. If an 
element other than iron is not specified, but is listed as remainder or 
balance, then, for conformance purposes the mean value for iron is 
compared to the calculated value for that other element. 
fine grain practice, n-a steelmaking practice for other than 
stainless steel that is intended to produce a killed steel that 
is capable of meeting the requirements specified for fine 
austenitic grain size when and if the as-rolled or as-forged 
product is reheated to a temperature at or above the 
transformation temperature, Ac 3 . 
D1scuss10N-When stated as a requirement, fine grain practice 
normally involves the addition of one or more austenitic grain refining 
elements in amounts that have been established by the steel producer as 
being sufficient. Austenitic grain refining elements include, but are not 
limited to, aluminum, niobium (columbium), titanium, and vanadium. 
A fine grain practice requirement ( 1) does not specify a minimum 
austenitic grain refining element addition; (2) does not require prior 
austenite grain size testing or measurement, or both; ( 3) if tested, does 
not require meeting any prior austenite grain size requirement; and ( 4) 
does not apply to, nor in any way control, the p1ior austenite grain size 
1382 