SA-1058 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Test Methods for 
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products-Metric 
1. Scope 
1. 1 These test methods cover mechanical tests described in 
ASTM, EN, ISO, and ITS standards that utilize the SI system 
of units. The test methods in each system are not exact 
equivalents. Each standards system (ASTM, EN, ISO, and ITS) 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining require­
ments from any two or more systems may result in noncon­
formance with the purchase order. 
1.2 These test methods cover procedures for the mechanical 
testing of steels, stainless steels, and related alloys. The various 
mechanical tests herein described are used to determine prop­
erties required in the product specifications. Variations in 
testing methods are to be avoided, and standard methods of 
testing are to be followed to obtain reproducible and compa­
rable results. In those cases in which the testing requirements 
for certain products are unique or at variance with these general 
procedures, the product specification testing requirements shall 
control. 
1.3 Only one of the testing procedure tracks shall be 
followed: ASTM, EN, ISO, or ITS. When a test method or 
practice is not available in one of the tracks then an appropriate 
test method or practice from an alternative track shall be used. 
The respective tests are listed in the column shown in Table 1. 
NOTE 1-The test methods in each system are not exact equivalents. 
1.4 The values stated in SI units are to be regarded as 
standard. No other units of measurement are included in this 
standard. 
1.5 Attention is directed to Practice ISO 17025 when there 
may be a need for information on criteria for evaluation of 
testing laboratories. 
1.6 This standard does not purport to address all of the 
safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
1542 
A833 Test Method for Indentation Hardness of Metallic 
Materials by Comparison Hardness Testers 
A956/ A956M Test Method for Leeb Hardness Testing of 
Steel Products 
A1038 Test Method for Portable Hardness Testing by the 
Ultrasonic Contact Impedance Method 
E8/E8M Test Methods for Tension Testing of Metallic Ma­
terials 
El0 Test Method for Brinell Hardness of Metallic Materials 
E18 Test Methods for Rockwell Hardness of Metallic Ma­
terials 
E23 Test Methods for Notched Bar Impact Testing of Me­
tallic Materials 
E29 Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to 
Determine Conformance with Specifications 
Ell0 Test Method for Rockwell and Brinell Hardness of 
Metallic Materials by Portable Hardness Testers 
El 90 Test Method for Guided Bend Test for Ductility of 
Welds 