ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-770/SA-770M 
to the plate surface and often slightly outside the heat-affected 
zone. Lamellar tearing generally has a step-like appearance 
consisting of "terraces" (cracks running parallel to the plate 
surface) and "walls" (cracks which connect the individual 
terraces). The tearing may remain completely subsurface or 
appear at plate edges or at weld toes. 
Xl.3 Inclusions 
Xl.3.1 The step-like cracking characteristic of lamellar 
tearing is usually considered to result from small elongated 
nonmetallic inclusions that are normally present in the steel. 
Strains in the through-thickness direction can cause individual 
inclusions to fractures or decohere from the surrounding steel 
matrix, thus initiating a void. Further strain can cause the 
remaining metallic ligaments to shear or rupture, resulting in 
the step-like fracture appearance. 
Xl.3.2 A high or concentrated inclusion content in the steel 
produces planar regions of poor ductility parallel to the steel 
surface. On the other hand, a reduction in the magnitude and 
concentration of these inclusions to a low level tends to 
preclude any easy fracture path along the low ductility inclu­
sions and the steel exhibits improved ductility in a through­
thickness direction. 
Xl.3.3 The extent of nonmetallic inclusions depends on the 
type of steel. In silicon semikilled or fully killed steels, these 
inclusions are primatily oxides (present as silicates) and 
sulfides (present as manganese sulfides). For aluminum-silicon 
killed steels, these inclusions are primarily sulfides (manganese 
sulfides). To improve the through-thickness ductility and thus 
the resistance of the steel to lamellar tearing, it is necessary to 
reduce the level of the nonmetallic inclusions. To provide a 
high resistance to lamellar tearing may require the use of 
special steel-making processes that can reduce the oxygen and 
sulfur contents in the steel to very low levels. 
Xl.4 Steel Manufacturing Processes 
Xl.4.1 Special steel-making processes are available for 
improving the through-thickness ductility. The more common 
processes, used singly or in combination, are: (J) low sulfur 
practices; (2) inclusion shape control; (3) electroslag or 
vacuum arc remelting; atld (4) vacuum degassing. The steel­
making processes are not all intended for the same purpose, but 
will improve the through-thickness ductility to various degrees 
depending on the process used. 
Xl.5 Through-Thickness Ductility Requirements 
Xl.5.1 Susceptibility to lamellar tearing depends on many 
factors (for example, restraint, welding conditions, etc.) and, 
consequently a specific through-thickness ductility require­
ment does not provide a guarantee against lamellar tearing. The 
most widely accepted method of measuring the material 
ductility factor of susceptibility to lamellar tearing is the 
reduction of area of a round tension test specimen oriented 
perpendicular to the rolled surface of a plate. 
X2. TESTING PARAMETERS AFFECTING REDUCTION OF AREA VALUES 
X2.1 Variability of Through-Thickness Properties 
X2.1.1 Through-thickness tension test results, and in par­
ticular the reduction of area determination as provided for in 
this specification, are subject to substantially greater scatter 
than would normally be expected from standard tension tests of 
a plate in the longitudinal or transverse direction. This scatter 
of test results is due in part to the inherent variability of the 
distribution of the nonmetallic inclusions discussed in Xl.3. 
For example, those nonmetallic inclusions that form during the 
solidification phase of the steelmaking process tend to occur 
with a higher frequency in the area of final solidification. 
X2.l.2 Test specimen design may also have an effect on the 
test results. Some of these factors are discussed in X2.2. 
Operator technique will also be a factor in increasing scatter, 
particularly in the measurement of the final diameter of the test 
specimen. Because of the effect of inclusions on the fracture 
process, the appearance of the final fracture may be quite 
different than the classical cup-cone fractures common to 
longitudinal and transverse tension testing. For those materials 
with approximately 20 % reducti.on of area, the final diatneter 
measurement may require a substantial amount of judgment on 
the part of the test operator. 
X2.1.3 In view of the potential variability of the through­
thickness reduction of area test results, it is recognized that two 
tests per plate are not sufficient to fully characterize the 
through-thickness ductility of that plate. The number of tests 
and test positions have not been established that would provide 
a good estimate of both the meat1 and the variability of 
through-thickness tensile reduction of values of a plate. There­
fore, an average value requirement is not included in this 
specification. The intent of this specification is to qualify a 
plate according to the described testing procedures using only 
a minimum value requirement. The potential variability of the 
test results also increases the possibility that subsequent testing 
of a steel plate qualified according to this specification may 
produce results that do not meet the specified acceptance 
standard. 
X2.2 Effects of Test Specimen Design 
X2.2.1 Two main factors considered in the selection of test 
specimen geometry were the diameter and the slenderness 
ratio. It is generally accepted that there is a diameter effect on 
reduction-of-area values such that a smaller diameter specimen 
generally yields a higher average reduction in area value. It is 
also accepted that smaller diameter test specimens will tend to 
give greater variability to the resulting reduction in area values. 
Because these relationships between the test specimen diam­
eter and the average and variability of the test result have not 
been satisfactorily quantified at this time, the same minimum 
requirement has been applied to all test specimen diameters. 
X2.2.2 The slenderness ratio (reduced section length/ 
reduced section diameter) is lmown to affect the reduction in 
1249 