ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-354 
F1470 Practice for Fastener Sampling for Specified Me­
chanical Properties and Performance Inspection 
F1789 Terminology for F16 Mechanical Fasteners 
F2329 Specification for Zinc Coating, Hot-Dip, Require­
ments for Application to Carbon and Alloy Steel Bolts, 
Screws, Washers, Nuts, and Special Threaded Fasteners 
2.2 ASME Standards: 
B 1.1 Unified Screw Threads 
B18.2.1 Square and Hex Bolts and Screws, Inch Series 
B18.24 Part Identifying Number (PIN) Code System Stan-
dard for B 18 Fastener Products 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 Orders for bolts and studs (including nuts and accesso-
ries) under this specification shall include the following: 
3.1.1 ASTM designation and year of issue, 
3.1.2 Name of product (that is, bolt or stud), 
3.1.3 Grade (that is, BC or BD), 
3.1.4 Quantities (number of pieces by size, including nuts), 
3.1.5 Size and length, 
3.1.6 Washers-Specify quantity and size (separate from 
bolts) (4.3), 
3.1.7 Zinc Coating-When zinc-coated Grade BC fasteners 
are required, specify the zinc-coating process required, for 
example hot-dip, mechanically deposited, or no preference (see 
4.4). 
3.1.8 Other Finishes-Specify other protective finish, if 
required. 
3.1.9 Specify if inspection at point of manufacture is 
required, 
3.1.10 Specify if Certification (Section 14) is required, and 
3.1.11 Specify additional testing (Section 9) or special 
requirements. 
3.1.12 For establishment of a part identifying system, see 
ASME Bl8.24. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 The steel shall be made by the open-hearth, electric­
fumace, or basic-oxygen process. 
4.2 All fasteners shall be heat-treated. At the option of the 
manufacturer, heat treatment may be performed on the raw 
material, during the manufacturing operations, or after final 
machining. Heat treatment shall consist of quenching in a 
liquid medium (except Grade BD sizes l ½in.and smaller shall 
be quenched in oil) from above the transformation temperature 
and then temperating by reheating to a temperature of not less 
than 800°F (427°C) for Grade BC and for Grade BD. 
4.3 When used, suitable hardened washers shall be 
quenched and tempered (non-carburized) in accordance with 
Specification F436. 
4.4 Zinc Coatings, Hot-Dip and Mechanically Deposited: 
4.4.1 When zinc-coated fasteners are required, the pur­
chaser shall specify the zinc coating process, for example, 
hot-dip, mechanically deposited, or no preference. 
4.4.2 When "hot-dip" is specified, the fasteners shall be zinc 
coated by the hot-dip process in accordance with the require­
ments of Specification F2329. 
4.4.3 When mechanically deposited is specified, the fasten­
ers shall be zinc-coated by the mechanical-deposition process 
in accordance with the requirements of Class 55 of Specifica­
tion B695. 
4.4.4 When no preference is specified, the supplier may 
furnish either a hot-dip zinc coating in accordance with 
Specification F2329, or a mechanically deposited zinc coating 
in accordance with Specification B695, Class 55. Threaded 
components (bolts and nuts) shall be coated by the same 
zinc-coating process and the supplier's option is limited to one 
process per item with no mixed processes in a lot. 
Norn 3-When the intended application requires that assembled 
tension exceeds 50 % of minimum bolt proof load, an anti-galling 
lubricant may be needed. Application of such a lubricant to nuts and a test 
of the lubricant efficiency are provided in Supplementary Requirement Sl 
of Specification A563 and should be specified when required. 
4.5 Zinc-coated bolts and nuts shall be shipped in the san1e 
container unless specifically requested otherwise by the pur­
chaser. 
NoTE 4-Research conducted on bolts of similar material and manu­
facture indicates that hydrogen-stress cracking or stress cracking corrosion 
may occur on hot-dip galvanized Grade BD bolts. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5. I All fasteners shall be made from alloy steel conforming 
to the chemical composition requirements in accordance with 
Table 1. The steel shall contain sufficient alloying elements to 
qualify it as an alloy steel. 
559 
NoTE 5-Steel is considered to be alloy, by the Ametican Iron and Steel 
Institute, when the maximum of the range given for the content of alloying 
elements exceeds one or more of the following limits: manganese, 1.65 %; 
silicon, 0.60 %; copper, 0.60 %; or in which a definite range or a definite 
minimum quantity of any of the following elements is specified or 
required within the limits of the recognized field of constructional alloy 
steels: aluminum, chromium np to 3.99 %, cobalt, columbium, 
molybdenum, nickel, titanium, tungsten, vanadium, zirconium, or any 
other alloying elements added to obtain a desired alloying effect. 
5.2 Product analysis may be made by the purchaser from 
finished material representing each lot of fasteners. The chemi­
cal composition thus determined shall conform to the require­
ments given in Table 1. Choice of alloy steel composition 
necessary to ensure meeting the specified mechanical require­
ments shall be made by the manufacturer and shall be reported 
to the purchaser for information purposes only. 
5.3 Application of heats of steel to which bismuth, 
selenium, tellurium, or lead has been intentionally added shall 
not be permitted. 
5 .4 Chemical analyses shall be performed in accordance 
with Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 Fasteners shall not exceed the maximum hardness speci­
fied in Table 2. Fasteners less than three diameters in length 
and studs less than four diameters in length shall have hardness 