ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-231/SA-231M 
percentage of elements prescribed in Table 3. This analysis 
shall be made from a test specimen preferably taken during 
the pouring of the cast or heat. When requested, this shall 
be reported to the purchaser and shall conform to the 
requirements of Table 3. 
5.3 Product Analysis (formerly Check Analysis) - An 
analysis may be made by the purchaser from finished wire 
representing each cast or heat of steel. The chemical com­
position thus determined, as to elements required or 
restricted, shall conform to the product ( check) analysis 
requirements specified in Table 5 of Specification A 752. 
5.4 For referee purposes, Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A 751 shall be used. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 Annealed and Cold Drawn - When purchased in 
the annealed and cold-drawn condition, the wire shall have 
been given a sufficient amount of cold working to meet the 
purchaser's coiling requirements and shall be in a suitable 
condition to respond properly to heat treatment. In special 
cases the hardness, if desired, shall be stated in the pur­
chase order. 
6.2 Oil Tempered - When purchased in the oil-tem­
pered condition, the tensile strength and minimum percent 
reduction of area, sizes 2.50 mm or 0.105 in. and coarser, 
of the wire shall conform to the requirements as shown in 
Table 1 or Table 2. 
6.2.1 Number of Tests - One test specimen shall be 
taken for each ten coils, or fraction thereof, in a lot. Each 
cast or heat in a given lot shall be tested. 
6.2.2 Location of Tests - Test specimens shall be 
taken from either end of the coil. 
6.2.3 Test Method - The tension test shall be made 
in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A 370. 
6.3 Wrap Test: 
6.3.1 Oil tempered or cold drawn wire 4.00 mm or 
0.162 in. and smaller in diameter shall wind on itself as 
an arbor without breakage. Larger diameter wire up to and 
including 8.00 mm or 0.312 in. in diameter shall wrap 
without breakage on a mandrel twice the wire diameter. 
The wrap test is not applicable to wire over 8.00 mm or 
0.312 in. in diameter. 
6.3.2 Number of Tests - One test specimen shall be 
taken for each ten coils, or fraction thereof, in a lot. Each 
cast or heat in a given lot shall be tested. 
6.3.3 Location of Test - Test specimens shall be 
taken from either end of the coil. 
6.3.4 Test Method - The wrap test shall be made 
in accordance with Supplement IV of Test Methods and 
Definitions A 370. 
7. Metallurgical Properties 
7.1 Surface Condition: 
7.1.1 The surface of the wire as received shall be 
free of rust and excessive scale. No serious die marks, 
scratches, or seams may be present. Based upon examina­
tion of etched end specimen, seams shall not exceed 3.5% 
of the wire diameter, or 0.25 mm or 0.010 in., whichever 
is the smaller as measured on a transverse section. 
7.1.2 Number of Tests - One test specimen shall be 
taken for each ten coils, or fraction thereof, in a lot. Each 
cast or heat in a given lot shall be tested. 
7.1.3 Location of Test - Test specimens shall be 
taken from either or both ends of the coil. 
7.1.4 Test Method - The surface shall be examined 
after etching in a solution of equal parts of hydrochloric 
acid and water that has been heated to approximately 80° C. 
Test ends shall be examined using lOX magnification. Any 
specimen which shows questionable seams of borderline 
depth shall have a transverse section taken from the 
unetched area, properly mounted and polished and exam­
ined to measure the depth of the seam. 
8. Dimensions and Permissible Variations 
8.1 The permissible variations in the diameter of the 
wire shall be as specified in Table 4 or Table 5. 
317 
9. Workmanship and Appearance 
9.1 Annealed and Cold Drawn -The wire shall not be 
kinked or improperly cast. To test for cast, a few convolu­
tions of wire shall be cut loose from the coil and placed 
on a flat surface. The wire shall lie flat on itself and not 
spring up nor show a wavy condition. 
9.2 Oil Tempered- The wire shall be uniform in quality 
and temper and shall not be wavy or crooked. 
9.3 Each coil shall be one continuous length of wire 
properly coiled. Welds made prior to cold drawing are 
permitted. If unmarked welds are unacceptable to the pur­
chaser, special arrangements should be made with the man­
ufacturer at the time of the purchase. 
9.4 Appearance - The surface shall be smooth and free 
of defects such as seams, pits, die marks, and other defects 
tending to impair the use of the wire for springs. Any 
additional surface requirements must be negotiated at the 
time of entry of the order. 
10. Retests 
10.1 If any test specimen exhibits obvious defects or 
shows the presence of a weld, it may be discarded and 
another specimen substituted. 