SA-240/SA-240M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Chromium and Chromium-Nickel Stainless Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip for Pressure Vessels and for General 
Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers chromium, chromium-nickel, 
and chromium-manganese-nickel stainless steel plate, sheet, 
and strip for pressure vessels and for general applications 
including architectural, building, construction, and aesthetic 
applications. 
1.2 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. 
1.3 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound and 
SI units. However, unless the order specifies the applicable 
"M" specification designation (SI units), the material shall be 
furnished in inch-pound units. 
I .4 This standard does not purport to address all of the 
safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
340 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A480/ A480M Specification for General Requirements for 
Flat-Rolled Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip 
A923 Test Methods for Detecting Det1imental Inte1111etallic 
Phase in Duplex Austenitic/Ferritic Stainless Steels 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
El40 Hardness Conversion Tables for Metals Relationship 
Among Brinell Hardness, Vickers Hardness, Rockwell 
Hardness, Superficial Hardness, Knoop Hardness, Sclero­
scope Hardness, and Leeb Hardness 
E527 Practice for Numbering Metals and Alloys in the 
Unified Numbering System (UNS) 
2.2 SAE Standard: 
J 1086 Practice for Numbering Metals and Alloys (UNS) 
3. General Requirements 
3.1 The following requirements for orders for material 
furnished under this specification shall conform to the appli­
cable requirements of the current edition of Specification 
A480/A480M. 
3 .1.1 Definitions; 
3.1.2 General requirements for delivery; 
3 .1.3 Ordering information; 
3.1.4 Process; 
3.1.5 Special tests; 
3.1.6 Heat treatment; 