SA-961/SA-961M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
:finished part is insufficient to permit obtaining the smallest 
standard subsize impact specimens, an impact test by the part 
manufacturer will not be required. 
12.4 If the average impact energy value meets the product 
specification requirements, but the energy value for one speci­
men is below the specified minimum value for individual 
specimens, a retest is permitted. This shall consist of two 
impact specimens from a location adjacent to, and on either 
side of, the specimen that failed. Each of the retested speci­
mens must exhibit an energy value equal to or greater than the 
minimum average value required by the product specification. 
13. Hydrostatic Test Requirements 
13.1 Parts manufactured under this specification shall be 
capable of passing a hydrostatic test compatible with the rating 
of the finished part. Such tests shall be conducted by the 
supplier only when the hydrostatic test supplementary require­
ment in the product specification is invoked by the purchaser. 
14. Re~ork 
14.1 When one or more representative test specimens or 
retest specimens do not conform to the requirements specified 
in the product specification for the tested characteristic, the 
product may be reworked according to the following require­
ments: 
14.1.1 If previously tested in the unheat treated condition, 
the product may be reworked by heat treatment, and subse­
quently retested, in accordance with the product specification. 
14.1.2 If previously tested in the heat treated condition, the 
product may be reworked by reheat treatment, and subse­
quently retested, in accordance with the product specification. 
15. Surface Finish, Appearance, and Corrosion 
Protection 
15.1 The parts shall conform to the dimensions, tolerances, 
and finish as specified on the purchaser's drawing or order and 
the individual ASTM product specification. 
15.2 The :finished parts shall be cleaned to remove all scale 
and processing compounds prior to the final surface examina­
tion. The cleaning process shall not injure the surface finish, 
material properties, or the metallurgical structure. 
15.2.1 The surface finish shall allow the detection of imper­
fections that can be disclosed by visual inspection. 
15.2.2 The cleaned parts shall be protected to prevent 
recontamination. 
15.2.2.1 Exterior and interior surfaces of carbon, low and 
intermediate alloy steel :fittings shall have a corrosion protec­
tive coating. Unless otherwise specified by the purchaser, the 
type of surface protection shall be at the option of the 
manufacturer. 
15.2.2.2 Stainless steel and nickel alloy :fittings need not be 
coated. Unmachined surfaces of stainless steel fittings shall be 
passivated by exposure to an acid bath, or electropolished. 
15.2.3 Protective coatings on parts subsequently subjected 
to socket welds or butt welds shall be suitable for welding 
without removal of the coating. Threaded :fittings shall be 
capable of installation without the removal of the coating. 
15.2.4 When specified in the purchase order, parts may be 
furnished in the as-formed or as-forged condition. 
15.3 The parts shall be free of injurious imperfections as 
defined below. At the discretion of the inspector representing 
the purchaser, finished parts shall be subject to rejection if 
surface imperfections acceptable under 15.5 are not scattered, 
but appear over a large area. 
15.4 Depth of Injurious Imperfections-Selected typical 
linear and other typical surface imperfections shall be explored 
for depth. When the depth encroaches on the minimum 
specified wall thickness of the finished part, such imperfections 
shall be considered injurious. • 
15.5 Imperfections Not Classified as Injurious-Surface 
imperfections not classified as injurious shall be treated as 
follows: 
15.5.1 Seams, laps, tears, or slivers not deeper than 5 % of 
the actual wall thickness at the point of interest or 1/16 in. [1.6 
mm], whichever is less, are acceptable. If deeper, these 
imperfections require removal, and shall be removed by 
machining or grinding. 
15.5.2 Mechanical marks or abrasions and pits shall be 
acceptable without grinding or machining provided the depth 
does not exceed 1/16 in. [1.6 mm]. If such imperfections are 
deeper than 1/16 in. [1.6 mm] but do not encroach on the 
minimum wall thickness of the forging they shall be removed 
by machining or grinding to sound metal. 
15.5.3 The wall thickness at the point of grinding, or at 
imperfections not required to be removed, shall be determined 
by deducting the amount removed by grinding, from the 
nominal finished wall thickness of the part. In any case, the 
wall thickness shall not be less than the specified minimum 
value. 
16. Repair by Welding 
16.1 The purchaser may require the supplier to submit 
proposed weld repairs for approval by invoking the appropriate 
supplementary requirement from the applicable product speci­
fication in the purchase order. If the purchaser does not require 
prior approval of proposed weld repairs, these repairs shall be 
permitted at the discretion of the supplier. All weld repairs shall 
be performed in accordance with the following limitations and 
requirements. 
16.1.1 The welding procedure and welders shall be qualified 
in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code. 
16.1.2 Defects shall be completely removed prior to weld­
ing by chipping or grinding to sound metal. Removal of these 
defects shall be verified by magnetic particle inspection in 
accordance with Test Method A275/A275M or Guide E709 for 
the ferritic, martensitic, or ferritic/austenitic grades, or by 
liquid penetrant inspection in accordance with Test Method 
E165/E165M for ferritic, martensitic, or austenitic grades. 
16.1.3 After repair welding, the welded area shall be ground 
smooth to the original contour and shall be completely free of 
defects as verified by magnetic particle or liquid penetrant 
inspection, as applicable. 
1406 