ASME BPVC.11.A·2025 SA·815/SA·815M 
MSS SP-95 Swage(d) Nipples and Bull Plugs 
MSS SP-97 Integrally Reinforced Forged Branch Outlet 
Fittings-Socket Welding, Threaded and Buttwelding 
Ends 
2.4 ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Codes: 
Section VIII Division I, Pressure Vessels 
Section IX, Welding and Brazing Qualifications 
2.5 ASNT Standard: 
SNT-TC-lA Recommended Practice for Nondestructive 
Testing Personnel Qualification and Certification 
3. Common Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material furnished to this specification shall conform to 
the requirements of Specification A960/A960M including any 
supplementary requirements that are indicated in the purchase 
order. Failure to comply with the common requirements of 
Specification A960/A960M constitutes nonconformance with 
this specification. In case of conflict between this specification 
and Specification A960/ A960M, this specification shall pre­
vail. 
3.2 Specification A960/A960M identifies the ordering infor­
mation that should be complied with when purchasing material 
to this specification. 
4. Materials 
4.1 The material for fittings shall consist of forgings, bars, 
plates, or seamless or welded tubular products that conform to 
the chemical requirements in Table 1. 
4.2 The steel shall be melted by one of the following 
processes: 
4.2.1 Electric furnace (with separate degassing and refining 
optional), 
4.2.2 Vacuum furnace, or 
4.2.3 Electric furnace followed by vacuum or electroslag­
consumable remelting. 
4.3 If secondary melting is employed, the heat shall be 
defined as all ingots remelted from a primary heat. 
5. Manufacture 
5.1 Forming-Forging or shaping operations may be per­
formed by hammering, pressing, piercing, extruding, upsetting, 
rolling, bending, fusion welding, machining or by combination 
of two or more of these operations. The forming procedure 
shall be so applied that it will not produce surface discontinui­
ties deeper than 5 % of the specified nominal thickness of the 
fitting. 
5.2 All classes of fittings shall be heat treated in accordance 
with Section 6. 
5.3 Fittings ordered as Class WP-S shall be of seamless 
construction and shall meet all requirements of Specification 
A960/ A960M. 
5.4 Fittings ordered as Class WP-W shall meet the require­
ments of Specification A960/ A960M and (J) shall have all 
welds made by. the fitting manufacturer and all pipe welds 
made with the addition of filler metal radiographically exam­
ined throughout the entire length in accordance with Paragraph 
UW-51 of Section VIII, Division 1, of the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code; and (2) shall not require radiography of 
the starting pipe weld if the pipe was welded without the 
addition of filler metal. In place of radiographic examination, 
welds made by the fitting manufacturer may be ultrasonically 
examined in accordance with the code requirements stated in 
5.6. 
5.5 Fittings ordered as Class WP-WX shall meet the re­
quirements of Specification A960/A960M and shall have all 
welds, whether made by the fitting manufacturer or the starting 
material manufacturer, radiographically examined throughout 
their entire length in accordance with Paragraph UW-51 of 
Section VIII, Division I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code. The radiography of welds for this class of fittings 
can be done either prior to or after forming at the option of the 
manufacturer. 
5.6 Fittings ordered as Class WP-WU shall meet the re­
quirements of Specification A960/ A960M and shall have all 
welds, whether made by the fitting manufacturer or the starting 
material manufacturer, ultrasonically examined throughout 
their entire length in accordance with Appendix 12 of Section 
VIII, Division 1 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. 
5.7 The radiography or ultrasonic examination for this class 
of fittings may be done at the option of the manufacturer, either 
prior to or after forming. 
5.8 Personnel performing NDE examinations shall be quali­
fied in accordance with SNT-TC- lA. 
5.9 Deleted 
5.10 All classes of fittings shall have the welders, welding 
operators, and welding procedures qualified under the provi­
sions of Section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Code except that starting pipe welds made without the addition 
of filler metal do not require such qualification. 
5.11 All joints welded with filler metal shall be finished in 
accordance with the requirements of Paragraph UW-35 (a) of 
Section VIII, Division 1, of the ASME Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code. 
5.12 Fittings machined from bar shall be restricted to NPS 4 
or smaller. 
5.12.1 All caps machined from bar shall be examined by 
liquid penetrant in accordance with Practice E165. 
5.13 Weld buildup is permitted to dimensionally correct 
unfilled areas produced during cold forming of stub ends. 
Radiographic examination of the weld buildup shall not be 
required provided that all of the following steps are adhered to: 
5.13.l The weld procedure and welders or welding opera­
tors meet the requirements of 5.10, 
5.13.2 Heat-treatment is performed after welding and prior 
to machining, 
1333 