ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-47 /SA-47M 
7.2 Tension Test Specimens: 
7 .2.1 The tension test specimens shall be cast to the 
form and dimensions shown in Fig. 1 or Fig. 2, in the same 
kind of molding material used for the production castings. 
At least three such specimens shall be cast from a represen­
tative ladle of iron either from each batch-melted heat or, 
in continuous melting, from each 4 h pour period during 
which the purchaser's castings were poured, or as otherwise 
agreed upon between manufacturer and purchaser. 
7.2.2 All test specimens shall be suitably identified 
with the designation of either the batch-melted heat or the 
pour period of a continuous heat. 
7 .2.3 All test specimens shall be heat treated in the 
same production furnaces and in the same cycles as the 
castings they represent. However, in those instances 
wherein the critical sections of the production castings 
differ appreciably from that of the central portion of the 
test specimens, the time cycle for tempering the test speci­
mens may be altered from that of the production lot in 
order to obtain similar microstructures or hardness, or both, 
in both specimen and castings. In such cases the hardness 
of the specimens shall be tested and reported along with 
the tensile test results. 
7.2.4 The tension test is usually performed on unma­
chined specimens. However, for referee work, the speci­
men may be machined from the standard cast bar to the 
dimensions shown in Fig. 3. 
7.3 Tension Test Method: 
7.3.1 The gage length of the standard tension speci­
men shall be 2.00 ± 0.ol in. [50.0 ± 0.3 mm]. 
7 .3.2 The diameter used to compute the cross-sec­
tional area shall be the average between the largest and 
smallest diameters in that section of the 2 in. [50 mm] 
gage length having the smallest diameter and shall be mea­
sured to the nearest 0.001 in. [0.2 mm]. No cast bar having 
a mean diameter less than 0.590 in. [15.0 mm] shall be 
accepted for test. 
7.3.3 After reaching a stress equivalent to approxi­
mately half of the anticipated yield stress, the speed of the 
moving head of the testing machine shall not exceed 
0.50 in./min [12.5 mm/min] through the breaking load. 
7.3.4 While the values for yield point and yield 
strength are not identical, they are sufficiently close for 
most applications of ferritic malleable irons to be used 
interchangeably. They may be determined by any of the 
approved techniques described in the paragraphs on Deter­
mination of Yield Strength and Yield Point of Test Methods 
E 8. If determined as yield strength, that stress producing 
an extension under load of 0.01 in. [0.25 mm] over the 
2 in. [50 mm] gage length (for example, 0.5% extension) 
or an offset of 0.2% shall be taken as the yield stress, 
which shall be converted to yield strength by dividing by 
the original cross-sectional area of the gage length found 
in accordance with 7.3.2. It shall be reported to the nearest 
100 psi [MPa]. In referee work, yield strength shall be 
determined as the stress that produces an extension under 
load of 0.5% of the gage length. 
7 .3.5 The tensile strength shall be the maximum load 
carried by the specimen during the test divided by the 
original cross-sectional area of the gage length, as found 
in accordance with 7.3.2. It shall be reported to the nearest 
100 psi [MPa]. 
7 .3.6 The elongation is the increase in gage length 
after fracture of a tensile specimen, measured to the nearest 
0.01 in. [0.25 mm], expressed as a percentage of the origi­
nal gage length. It shall be reported to the nearest 0.5%. 
7.4 Retesting: 
7.4.1 If, after testing, a specimen shows evidence of 
a defect, another tension test may be made on a companion 
specimen. Also, a retest shall be permitted whenever frac­
ture occurs outside the central 50% of the gage length. 
7 .4.2 If the results of a valid test fail to conform to 
the requirements of this specification, two retests shall be 
made. If either retest fails to meet the specification, the 
castings represented by these test specimens shall be 
rejected. A valid test is one wherein the test specimen has 
been properly prepared and appears to be sound and on 
which the approved test procedure has been followed. 
131 
7.4.3 If sufficient companion test bars are unavail­
able, the manufacturer shall have the option of testing a 
specimen cut from a representative casting. Therefore, as 
stated in Xl.3, the mechanical properties of such tension 
test specimen removed from a production casting will not 
necessarily correspond to those of a standard separately 
cast test specimen, the values in Table 1 do not apply. 
Instead, the mechanical properties of the test specimen 
from the casting must equal or exceed the average of those 
from similar test specimens removed from the same loca­
tion from two castings of the same design where separately 
cast test bars meet the requirements of Table 1. 
7 .4.4 If the first test results indicate that a reheat 
treatment is needed to meet the test requirements, the entire 
lot of castings and the representative test specimens shall 
be reheat treated together. Testing shall then be repeated 
in accordance with 7.4.1-7.4.3. 
7 .4.5 The results of all tests, including retests, shall 
be posted in permanent record, which shall state any abnor­
malities observed during the test and in the fractured ends. 
Such records shall be kept for at least 1 year after shipment 
of the production castings and shall be available for exami­
nation by the purchaser or by his authorized representative. 
7 .4.6 If not covered in the purchase agreement, the 
frequency of tension testing shall be in accordance with 
7.2.1 and sufficiently often to ensure uniformity of product 
and compliance with minimum test requirements. 