SA-960/SA-960M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
shall be used unless the material to be tested is of insufficient 
thickness, in which case the largest obtainable standard subsize 
impact specimens shall be used. When the size or shape of the 
finished fittings is insufficient to permit obtaining the smallest 
standard subsize impact specimens, an impact test by the fitting 
manufacturer will not be required. 
13. Hydrostatic Test Requirements 
13 .1 Parts manufactured under this specification shall be 
capable of passing a hydrostatic test compatible with the rating 
of the specified matching pipe of equivalent material. Such a 
test shall be conducted only when specified in the purchase 
order or when the hydrostatic test Supplementary Requirement 
is invoked by the purchaser. 
14. Rework 
14.1 When one or more representative test specimens or 
retest specimens do not conform to the requirements specified 
in the product specification for the tested characteristic, the lot 
of material represented by the test specimen may be reworked 
according to the following requirements. 
14.1.1 If previously tested in the untreated condition, the 
product may be reworked by heat treatment, and subsequently 
retested, in accordance with the product specification. 
14.1.2 If previously tested in the heat treated condition, the 
product may be reworked by reheat treatment, and subse­
quently retested, in accordance with the product specification. 
15. Surface Finish, Appearance, and Corrosion 
Protection 
15.1 The parts shall conform to the dimensions, tolerances 
and finish as specified in the purchaser's order and to the 
individual ASTM product specification. 
15.2 The finished parts shall be cleaned to remove all scale 
and processing compounds prior to the final surface examina­
tion. The cleaning process shall not injure the surface finish, 
material properties, or the metallurgical structure. 
15.2.1 The surface finish shall allow the detection of imper­
fections that can be disclosed by visual inspection. 
15.2.2 The cleaned parts shall be protected to prevent 
recontamination. 
15.2.2.1 Exterior and interior surfaces of carbon, low, and 
intermediate alloy steel fittings shall have a corrosion protec­
tive coating. Unless otherwise specified by the purchaser, the 
type of surface protection shall be at the option of the 
manufacturer. 
15.2.2.2 Stainless steel and nickel alloy fittings need not be 
coated. Unmachined surfaces of stainless steel fittings shall be 
passivated by exposure to an acid bath, or electropolished. 
15.2.3 Protective coatings on parts subsequently subjected 
to socket welds or butt welds shall be suitable for welding 
without removal of the coating. Threaded fittings shall be 
capable of installation without the removal of the coating. 
15.2.4 When specified in the purchase order, parts may be 
furnished in the as-formed condition. 
15.3 Fittings supplied under this specification shall be 
examined visually. Selected typical surface discontinuities 
shall be explored for depth. Unless otherwise specified in the 
purchase order, the following shall apply. 
15.3.1 Fittings conforming to ASME B16.9, MSS-SP-43, 
and MSS-SP-95 shall be free of surface discontinuities that 
penetrate more than 5 % of the specified nominal wall 
thickness, except as defined in 15.3.3 and 15.3.4. Fittings 
conforming to ASME B16.11, MSS-SP-79, MSS-SP-83, and 
MSS-SP-97 shall be free of surface discontinuities that pen­
etrate more than 5 % of the actual wall thickness at the point of 
interest, or 1/16 in. [1.6 mm], whichever is less, except as 
defined in 15.3.4. Fittings conforming to MSS-SP-75 shall be 
free of surface discontinuities that penetrate more than 6½ % 
of the specified nominal wall thickness. 
15.3.2 Surface discontinuities deeper than 5 % of the speci­
fied nominal or actual wall thickness as applicable, except as 
defined in 15.3.3 and 15.3.4, shall be removed by the manu­
facturer by machining or grinding to sound metal, and the 
repaired areas shall blend smoothly into the contour of the 
finished fitting. Surface discontinuities on fittings conforming 
to MSS-SP- 75 shall be removed or repaired in accordance with 
the requirements of that standard. Except for fittings conform­
ing to MSS-SP-75, the wall thickness at all points shall be at 
least the specified minimum wall thickness, or 87½ % of the 
specified nominal wall thickness and the diameters shall be 
within the limits specified in the applicable dimensional 
standards. 
15.3.3 Surface checks (fish scale) deeper than 1/64 in. [0.4 
mm] shall be removed. 
15.3.4 Mechanical marks deeper than 1/16 in. [1.6 mm] shall 
be removed. 
15.3.5 When the removal of a surface discontinuity reduces 
the wall thickness below the specified minimum wall thickness 
at any point, the fitting shall be subject to rejection or to repair 
as provided in Section 16, or in accordance with MSS-SP- 75 
for fittings conforming to that standard. 
16. Repair by Welding 
16.1 The purchaser may require the supplier to submit 
proposed weld repairs for approval by invoking the appropriate 
Supplementary Requirement in the purchase order. 
16.2 If the purchaser does not require prior approval of the 
proposed weld repairs, these repairs shall be permitted at the 
discretion of the supplier. All weld repairs shall be performed 
in accordance with the following limitations and requirements. 
16.2.1 The welding procedure, welders and operators shall 
be qualified in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Boiler 
and Pressure Vessel Code. The composition of the weld deposit 
shall be compatible with the composition of the material being 
welded. 
16.2.2 Defects shall be completely removed prior to weld­
ing by machining, chipping or grinding to sound metal. 
Removal of these defects shall be verified by magnetic particle 
examination in accordance with Guide E709 or liquid penetrant 
inspection in accordance with Test Method E165/E165M, as 
applicable. 
16.2.3 After repair welding, the welded area shall be ma­
chined or ground smooth to the original contour and shall be 
completely free of defects as verified by magnetic particle 
1394 