ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-480/SA-480M (ASTM A480/A480M) 
22. Inspection 
22.1 Inspection of the material by the purchaser's represen­
tative at the producing plant shall be made as agreed upon 
between the purchaser and the seller as part of the purchase 
order. 
22.2 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, (1) the seller is responsible for the performance of all the 
inspection and test requirements in this specification, (2) the 
seller is permitted to use own or other suitable facilities for the 
performance of the inspection and testing, and (3) the pur­
chaser shall have the right to perform any of the inspection and 
tests set forth in this specification. The manufacturer shall 
afford the purchaser's inspector all reasonable facilities neces­
sary to satisfy the inspector that the material is being furnished 
in accordance with the specification. Inspection by the pur­
chaser shall not interfere unnecessarily with the manufacturer. 
23. Rejection 
23.1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection based on tests 
made in accordance with this specification shall be reported to 
the seller within 60 working days from the receipt of the 
material by the purchaser. 
23.2 Material that shows injurious imperfections as de­
scribed in Section 10 subsequent to its acceptance at the 
purchaser's works will be rejected and the seller shall be 
notified. 
24. Rehearing 
24.1 Samples tested in accordance with this specification 
that represent rejected material shall be retained for three 
weeks from the date of the notification to the seller of the 
rejection. In case of dissatisfaction with the results of the test, 
the seller is permitted to make claim for a rehearing within that 
time. 
25. Packaging, Marking, and Loading 
25.1 For Commercial Procurement: 
25.1.1 Marking-Unless otherwise specified in the appli­
cable material specification or the purchase order, marking 
shall be conducted as follows: 
25.1.1.1 Sheet, strip, and plate shall be marked on one face, 
in the location indicated below with the specification designa­
tion number, type of steel (type or UNS designation), material 
identification number, and the name or mark of the manufac­
turer. For sheet, strip, and plate whose length and width 
dimensions are both less than 24 in., each piece shall be 
marked with the type of steel and material identification 
number. The specification and designation number, and name 
or mark of the manufacturer shall be marked on the piece(s) or 
attached to the item or bundle. The characters shall be of such 
size as to be clearly legible. The marking shall be sufficiently 
stable to withstand normal handling. Unless otherwise speci­
fied by the purchaser, the marking, at the producers option, is 
permitted to be done with (J) marking fluid (if a specific 
maximum impurity limit of designated elements in the marking 
fluid is required by the purchaser, it shall be so stated on the 
purchase order), (2) low-stress blunt-nosed continuous or 
low-stress blunt-nosed-interrupted-dot die stamp, (3) a vibra­
tory tool with a minimum tip radius of 0.005 in. [0.1 mm], or 
(4) electrochemical etching. 
25.1.1.2 Flat sheet, strip in cut lengths, and plate shall be 
marked in two places near the ends or shall be continuously 
line marked along one edge. For flat sheet, strip in cut lengths, 
and plate whose length and width dimensions are both less than 
48 in., it is permitted to mark such pieces in only one place. 
25.1.1.3 Sheet, strip, and plate in coil form shall be marked 
near the outside end of the coil. The inside of the coil shall also 
be marked or shall have a tag or label attached and marked with 
the information of 25.1.1.1. 
25.1.1.4 Material less than¼ in. [6.4 mm] in thickness shall 
not be marked with die stamps. 
25.1.1.5 The manufacturer's test identification number shall 
be legibly stamped on each test specimen, if to be shipped to 
the customer. 
25.1.1.6 Material that conforms completely with the re­
quirements of two types of steel within the ordering specifica­
tion is permitted to be marked as both types of steel provided 
that the manufacturer is certifying the material as meeting the 
requirements of each of the types of steel. Such marking, if 
used, shall be part of the same marking as used for a single type 
of steel, or shall be a separate but similar marking immediately 
adjacent to the marking used for a single type of steel. 
25. 1.1 .7 The AIAG primary metals identification tag (AIAG 
B-5) is permitted to be used as an auxiliary method of 
identification in cases where a bar-coded identification tag is 
desired. Use of this method shall be by agreement between 
purchaser and supplier. 
25.1.2 Packaging and Loading-Unless otherwise speci­
fied in the applicable material specification or the purchase 
order, packaging, and loading shall be in accordance with the 
procedures recommended by Practices A700. 
25.2 For U.S. Government Procurement: 
25.2.1 When specified in the contract or order, and for direct 
procurement by or direct shipment to the government, marking 
for shipment shall be in accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123. 
793 
26. Keywords 
26.1 austenitic stainless steel; duplex stainless steel; ferritic 
stainless steel; martensitic stainless steel; stainless steel; stain­
less steel plate; stainless steel sheet; stainless steel strip 