SA-961/SA-961M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
6.1.1 Bar-Flanges, elbows, return bends, tees, and header 
tees shall not be machined directly from bar. Other cylindrical 
shaped parts up to, and including, NPS 4 can be machined from 
bar provided that the axial length of the part is approximately 
parallel to the metal flow lines of the starting stock. 
6.1.2 Wrought Seamless Pipe and Tubing-Flanges shall not 
be machined directly from seamless pipe or tubing. Other 
hollow cylindrical shaped parts can be machined from seam­
less pipe and tubing provided that the axial length of the pa.it 
is approximately parallel to the metal flow lines of the staiting 
stock. 
7. Heat Treatment 
7.1 Material requiring heat treatment shall be treated as 
specified in the individual product specification using the 
following procedures that are defined in more detail in Termi­
nology A94 l. 
7.1.1 Annealing-Material shall be uniformly reheated to a 
temperature above the transformation range and, after holding 
for a sufficient time at this temperature, cooled slowly to a 
temperature below the transformation range. 
7.1.2 Solution Annealing (or Solution Treat or Treatment)­
Material shall be heated to a temperature that causes the 
chromium cai·bides to go into solution, and then, quenched in 
water or rapidly cooled by other means to prevent re­
precipitation. 
7.1.3 Isothermal Annealing-Isothermal annealing shall 
consist of austenitizing a ferrous alloy, and then, cooling to and 
holding within the range of temperature at which the austenite 
transfonns to a relatively soft ferrite-carbide aggregate. 
7.1.4 Normalizing-Material shall be uniformly reheated to 
a temperature above the transformation range, and 
subsequently, cooled in air at room temperature. 
7.1.5 Tempering and Post-Weld Heat Treatment-Material 
shall be reheated to the prescribed temperature below the 
transformation range, held at temperature for the greater of 30 
min or 1 h/in. [25 .4 mm] of thickness at the thickest section and 
cooled in still air. 
7.1.6 Stress Relieving-Material shall be uniformly heated 
to the selected stress relieving temperature, held long enough 
to reduce stresses and then cooled at a rate that will result in the 
properties required for the material grade and minimize the 
development of new residual stresses. The temperature shall 
not vary from the selected temperature by more than :±: 25 °F 
[:±:14 °C]. 
7.1.7 Quench and Temper-Material shall be fully austen­
itized and quenched immediately in a suitable liquid medium. 
The quenched material shall be reheated to a minimum 
temperature of 1100 °F [590 °C] and cooled in still air. 
7.1.8 Same Heat Treat Cycle-Heat treat loads at the same 
temperature, equivalent soak times as appropriate for the 
maximum section size on the respective load and equivalent 
cooling methods. 
8. Chemical Requirements 
8.1 Chemical Analysis-Samples for chemical analysis and 
methods of analysis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, 
Practices, and Terminology A 751. 
8.2 Heat Analysis-An analysis of each heat of steel shall be 
made by the steel manufacturer to determine the percentages of 
those elements specified in the individual product specification. 
If secondary melting processes are employed, the heat analysis 
shall be obtained from one remelted ingot, or the product of 
one remelted ingot, from each primary melt. The chemical 
analysis thus determined shall conform to the requirements of 
the individual product specification. Note that the product 
analysis (check analysis) tolerances are not to be applied to the 
Heat Analysis requirements. 
8.3 Product Analysis-If a product analysis is performed it 
shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. Sainples for analysis shall be taken from 
midway between center and surface of solid parts, midway 
between inner and outer surfaces of hollow parts, midway 
between center and surface of full-size prolongations or from 
broken mechanical test specimens. The chemical composition 
thus determined shall conform to the limits of the product 
specification, within the permissible variations of Table 1 of 
this specification. 
8.3.1 Limits on formula calculations involving elemental 
contents shall apply only to the heat analysis, unless agreed 
upon between supplier and purchaser. Where limits on formula 
calculations involving elemental contents apply to product 
analysis by such agreement, permissible variations in the 
formula calculation results beyond the limits for the heat 
analysis shall also be agreed upon between supplier and 
purchaser. Examples of such formula calculations include, but 
are not limited to, the following: carbon equivalent CE = C + 
Mn/ 6 + (Cr+ Mo + V) / 5 + (Ni + Cu) / 15; J factor= (Mn 
+ Si) x (P + Sn) x 104; or requirements for specific elemental 
balance or sufficiency, typically related to Ti, Nb, or Al and 
interstitials C and N, such as Nb = 5 x C minimum. 
9. Mechanical Requirements 
9.l Method of Mechanical Tests-All tests shall be con­
ducted in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370 
if the inch-pound units are specified or Test Methods A1058 if 
the M suffix (SI units) is specified. 
9.2 For the purpose of determining conformance to the 
product specification requirements, specimens shall be ob­
tained from the production forgings, or from separately forged 
test blanks prepared from the stock used to make the finished 
product. In either case, mechanical test specimens shall not be 
removed until after all heat treatment is complete. If repair 
welding is performed, test specimens shall not be removed 
until after post-weld heat treatment is complete, unless permit­
ted by the product specification. The locations from which test 
specimens are removed shall be in accordance with the Product 
Specification. 
9.3 If separately forged test blanks are used, they shall be of 
the saine heat of steel, be subjected to substantially the same 
reduction and working as the production forging they 
represent, be heat treated in the same furnace charge except as 
provided for in the reduced testing provisions of the product 
specification, under the same conditions as the production 
forging, and be of the saine nominal thickness as the maximum 
heat treated thickness of the production forging. 
1404 