SA-106/SA-106M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Seamless Carbon Steel Pipe for High-Temperature Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers seamless carbon steel pipe for 
high-temperature service (Note 1) in NPS Vs to NPS 48 [DN 6 
to DN 1200] (Note 2) inclusive, with nominal (average) wall 
thickness as given in ASME B 36.lOM. It shall be permissible 
to furnish pipe having other dimensions provided such pipe 
complies with all other requirements of this specification. Pipe 
ordered under this specification shall be suitable for bending, 
flanging, and similar forming operations, and for welding. 
When the steel is to be welded, it is presupposed that a welding 
procedure suitable to the grade of steel and intended use or 
service will be utilized. 
Norn 1-It is suggested, consideration be given to possible graphitiza­
tion. 
Norn 2-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) [DN 
(diameter nominal)] has been substituted in this standard for such 
traditional terms as "nominal diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.2 Supplementary requirements of an optional nature are 
provided for seamless pipe intended for use in applications 
where a superior grade of pipe is required. These supplemen­
tary requirements call for additional tests to be made and when 
desired shall be so stated in the order. 
1.3 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. 
1.4 The following precautionary caveat pertains only to the 
test method portion, Sections 11, 12, and 13 of this specifica­
tion: This standard does not purport to address all of the safety 
concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the responsibility 
of the user of this standard to establish appropriate safety, 
health, and environmental practices and determine the appli­
cability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
170 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A530/A530M Specification for General Requirements for 
Specialized Carbon and Alloy Steel Pipe 
E213 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of Metal Pipe and 
Tubing 
E309 Practice for Eddy Current Examination of Steel Tubu­
lar Products Using Magnetic Saturation 
E381 Method of Macroetch Testing Steel Bars, Billets, 
Blooms, and Forgings 
E570 Practice for Flux Leakage Examination of Ferromag-
netic Steel Tubular Products 
2.2 ASME Standard: 
ASME B 36.lOM Welded and Seamless Wrought Steel Pipe 
2.3 Military Standards: 
MIL-STD-129 Marking for Shipment and Storage 
MIL-STD-163 Steel Mill Products, Preparation for Ship-
ment and Storage 
2.4 Federal Standard: 
Fed. Std. No. 123 Marking for Shipments (Civil Agencies) 
Fed. Std. No. 183 Continuous Identification Marking of Iron 
and Steel Products 
2.5 Other Standards: 
SSPC-SP 6 Surface Preparation Specification No. 6 