ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-530/SA-530M 
13.4 No jointers are permitted unless otherwise agreed 
upon. 
14. Standard Weight 
14.1 A system of standard pipe sizes has been approved by 
the American National Standards Institute as ASME B36.10 
and B36.19. These standard sizes do not prohibit the produc­
tion and use of other sizes of pipe produced to the various 
specifications referenced to this Specification. 
14.2 For nonstandard sizes of pipe, the calculated weight 
per foot, shall be determined from the following equation: 
W=C(D-t)t (1) 
where: 
C = 10.69 [0.0246615], 
W = weight, lb/ft [kg/m], 
D = specified or calculated (from specified inside diameter 
and wall thickness) outside diameter, in. [mm], and 
t = specified wall thickness, in. (to 3 decimal places) [mm 
to 2 decimal places]. 
Nam 2-The weights given in the American National Standards and 
the calculated weights given by Eq 1 are based on the weights for carbon 
steel pipe. The weight of pipe made of ferritic stainless steels may be 
about 5 % less, and that made of austenitic stainless steel about 2 % 
greater than the values given. 
15. Ends 
15.1 Unless otherwise specified, the pipe shall be furnished 
with plain ends. All burrs at the ends of the pipe shall be 
removed. 
16. Straightness 
16.1 The finished pipe shall be reasonably straight. 
18. Retests 
18.1 If the results of the mechanical tests of any group or lot 
do not conform to the requirements specified in the individual 
specification, retests may be made on additional lengths of pipe 
of double the original number from the same group or lot, each 
of which shall conform to the requirements specified. Only one 
retest of any group or lot will be permitted. Nonconformance 
will be cause for the rejection of the group or lot. 
18.2 Any individual length of pipe that meets the test 
requirements is acceptable. Individual lengths that do not 
. conform to the test requirements may be resubmitted for test 
provided the reason for nonconformance is established and the 
nonconforming portion removed. 
19. Retreatment 
19.1 If individual lengths of pipe selected to represent any 
group or lot fail to conform to the test requirements, the group 
or lot represented may be reheat treated and resubmitted for 
test. The manufacturer may reheat treat the pipe, but not more 
than twice, except with the approval of the purchaser on the 
basis of satisfactory metallurgical evidence that the cause of 
failure of the test is curable and the quality of the material is 
satisfactory. 
20. Test Specimens 
20.1 Test specimens shall be taken from the ends of as-heat 
treated finished pipe prior to any forming operations, or being 
cut to length. They shall be smooth on the ends and free from 
burrs and flaws, except for specimens for the flattening test 
when made from crop ends. 
20.2 Specimens cut either longitudinally or transversely 
shall be acceptable for the tension test. 
20.3 If any test specimen shows flaws or defective 
machining, the specimen may be discarded and another sub­
stituted. 
21. Flattening Test Requirements 
16.2 For metal-arc welded pipe, the maximum deviation 
from a 10-ft [3.0-m] straightedge placed so that both ends are 
in contact with the pipe shall be 1/s in. [3.2 mm]. For metal-arc 
welded pipe with lengths shorter than 10 ft [3.0 m], this 
maximum deviation shall be pro-rated with respect to the ratio 
of the actual length to 10 ft [3.0 m]. 21.1 Seamless and Centrifugally Cast Pipe-A section of 
pipe not less than 2½ in. [63 mm] in length shall be flattened 
-------:1~7;;-.--;R;:;:-e-p-a~ir-;-by~W;;:e-;l-;di;--.n-g---------------rold--between .. parallel plates in two stens. During the first step, 
which is a test for ductility, no cracks or breaks on the inside, 
17 .1 Repair by welding of defects in seamless pipe (includ- outside, or end surfaces, except as provided for in 21.3.4, shall 
ing centrifugally cast and forged and bored) and of plate occur until the distance between the plates is less than the value 
defects in welded pipe and, when specifically stated by the of H calculated as follows: 
product specification weld seam defects in welded pipe, shall 
be permitted subject to the approval of the purchaser and with 
the further understanding that the composition of the deposited 
filler metal shall be suitable for the composition being welded. 
Defects shall be thoroughly chipped or ground out before 
welding and each repaired length shall be reheat treated or 
stress relieved as required by the applicable specification. Each 
length of repaired pipe shall be tested hydrostatically as 
required by the product specification. 
17 .2 Repair welding shall be performed using procedures 
and welders or welding operators that have been qualified in 
accordance with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
Section IX. 
897 
H= (1 + e)tl(e + t/D) (2) 
where: 
H = distance between flattening plates, in. [mm], 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], 
D = specified or calculated (from the specified inside diam­
eter and wall thickness) outside diameter, in. [mm], and 
e = deformation per unit length ( constant for a given grade 
of steel; 0.07 for medium carbon steel (maximum 
specified carbon 0.19 % or greater), 0.08 for ferritic 
alloy steel, 0.09 for austenitic steel, and 0.09 for 
low-carbon steel (maximum specified carbon 0.18 % or 
less)). 