SA-31 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
11. Test Methods 
11.1 Rivets - Rivet bend and flattening tests shall be 
in accordance with the manufacturers standard test proce­
dures. 
11.2 Bars - Tension and bend tests shall be conducted 
in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A 370, 
and especially Supplement I thereof, on steel bar products. 
12. Inspection 
12.1 If the testing described in Section 9 is required 
by the purchaser, it shall be specified in the inquiry and 
contract or order. 
12.2 The inspector representing the purchaser shall 
have free entry at all times, while work on the contract 
of the purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the 
manufacturer's works that concern the manufacture of the 
material ordered. The manufacturer shall afford the inspec­
tor all reasonable facilities, without charge, to satisfy him 
that the material is being furnished in accordance with 
this specification. All tests (except product analysis) and 
inspection shall be made at the place of manufacture prior 
to shipment, unless otherwise specified, and shall be so 
conducted as not to interfere unnecessarily with the opera­
tion of the works. 
13. Rejection and Rehearing 
13.1 Rivets - Rivets that fail to conform to the require­
ments of this specification may be rejected. Rejection 
should be reported to the producer or supplier promptly 
and in writing. In case of dissatisfaction with the results 
of the test, the producer or supplier may make claim for 
a rehearing. 
13.2 Bars - Rejection and rehearing shall be in accor­
dance with Specification A 29 / A 29M. 
14. Certification 
14.1 The manufacturer shall furnish certification that 
the material was manufactured and tested in accordance 
with this specification together with a report of the heat 
analysis (5.2) and mechanical property test results (Section 
6) as applicable to the product ordered. The report shall 
include the manufacturer's name, ASTM designation, 
grade, heat number (bars only), and authorized signature. 
122 
15. Responsibility 
15.1 The party responsible for the fastener shall be the 
organization that supplies the fastener to the purchaser. 
16. Packaging and Package Marking 
16.1 Rivets - Rivets shall be properly packed and 
marked to prevent damage and loss during shipment. 
16.2 Bars - Bars shall be packed and marked in accor­
dance with Specification A 29 / A 29M. 
17. Keywords 
17.1 bars; carbon steel; pressure vessel rivets; rivets; 
steel 
FIG. 1 BEND TEST OF RIVET 