SA-376/SA-376M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
S6. Ultrasonic Test 
S6.1 Each piece of pipe may be ultrasonically tested to 
determine its soundness throughout the entire length of the 
pipe. Each piece shall be ultrasonically tested in a circumfer­
ential direction in such a manner that the entire piece is 
scanned by the ultrasonic beam. The calibration standard shall 
be prepared from a section of pipe which has two notches, one 
in the inside surface and one in the outside smface. The notches 
shall be at least 1 ½-in. [38-mm] long and have a depth of 3 % 
of the wall thickness, or 0.004 in. [0.102 mm], whichever is the 
greater. Any pipe showing an ultrasonic indication of greater 
amplitude than the amplitude of the indication from the 
calibration standard shall be subject to rejection. 
S7. Hot Ductility Test for Indicating Weldability 
S7 .1 A high-temperature ductility test may be made upon 
each heat of mate1ial supplied in heavy-wall pipe sections. An 
appropriate specimen shall be heated to an initial temperature, 
cooled 100 °P [50 °C], then subjected to a tension test, and 
shall show a minimum reduction of area of 60 %. The initial 
temperature is that temperature 50 °P [30 °C] below the 
temperature at which material exhibits zero ductility. Rejection 
of material shall not be based upon this test. 
S8. Retests 
S8.l Upon the purchaser's request, retests shall be made 
from sections of material removed from any part of the pipe. 
Failure to meet the requirements stated in this specification 
shall be cause for rejection. 
S9. Stabilization Heat Treatment 
S9.1 Subsequent to the solution anneal required in 5.4, 
Grades TP321, TP321H, TP347, TP347H, TP348, and TP348H 
shall be given a stabilization heat treatment at a temperature 
lower than that used for the initial solution annealing heat 
treatment. The temperature of stabilization heat treatment shall 
be at a temperature as agreed upon between the purchaser and 
vendor. 
S10. Intergranular Corrosion Test 
S 10.1 When specified, material shall pass intergranular 
corrosion tests conducted by the manufacturer in accordance 
with Practices A262, Practice E. 
NoTE S 10.1-Practice E requires testing on the sensitized condition for 
low carbon or stabilized grades, and on the as-shipped condition for other 
grades. 
SI0.2 A stabilization heat treatment in accordance with 
Supplementary Requirement S9 may be necessary and is 
permitted in order to meet this requirement for the grades 
containing titanium or columbium, particularly in their H 
versions. 
646 