ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-961/SA-961M 
16.1.4 Repair by welding shall not exceed 10 % of the 
surface area of the part, or 33 1/3 % of the wall thickness of the 
finished product, or 3/s in. [10 mm] deep at the location of the 
repair. 
16.2 The weld repair shall conform to 9.2 and to the 
additional requirements, if any, invoked in the Product Speci­
fication. 
17. Inspection 
17 .1 The supplier shall afford the purchaser's inspector all 
reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy him that the material 
is being produced and furnished in accordance with the general 
specification and the applicable product specification. Site 
inspection by the purchaser shall not interfere unnecessarily 
with the supplier's operations. 
18. Rejection and Rehearing 
18.1 Samples representing material rejected by the pur­
chaser shall be preserved until disposition of the claim has been 
agreed upon between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
18.2 Material that shows injurious defects subsequent to its 
acceptance at the manufacturer's works will be rejected, and 
the manufacturer shall be notified. 
19. Certification 
19 .1 A test report and a certificate of compliance are 
required. 
19.2 Test reports shall include the product specification 
number and year/date of issue, the results of all tests required 
by this specification, and the purchaser order, and shall be 
traceable to the part represented. 
19.3 A single document, containing the test report informa­
tion and certificate of compliance information may be used. 
19 .4 A certificate printed from or used in electronic data 
interchange (EDI) transmission shall be regarded as having the 
same validity as a counterpoint printed in the certifier's facility. 
The content of the EDI transmitted document shall conform to 
any existing EDI agreement between the purchaser and sup­
plier. 
19.5 Not withstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting either a printed certificate or an EDI 
transmitted certificate is responsible for the content of the 
report. 
20. Marking 
20.1 Each piece shall be legibly marked in a position as not 
to injure the usefulness of the forgings with the product 
specification number, grade or marking symbol, class, certify­
ing organization's name or symbol, the heat number or heat 
identification, size, and service rating, if applicable. Dual or 
multiple marking with the product specification number, grade 
or marking symbol, and class is acceptable provided the 
material meets all the requirements with which it is marked. It 
is not required to mark the product with the specification year 
and date of issue. When size or shape does not permit the 
inclusion of all the required marking as described, see 20.2. 
Manufacturer can also choose the use of tags, box labels, etc. 
for identification when per piece marking is not practical due to 
size or shape. 
20.2 The Standard Marking System of Valves, Fittings, 
Flanges and Unions MSS SP 25 shall be followed except the 
word "steel" shall not be substituted for the specification grade. 
20.3 Product marking shall conform to the additional 
requirements, if any, invoked in the product specification or 
purchase order. 
21. Packaging, Marking and Loading for Shipment 
21.1 Packaging, marking, and loading for shipment shall be 
in accordance with Practices A700. 
22. Keywords 
22.1 alloy steel; carbon steel; fittings; flanges; forgings; 
general requirement; piping applications; pressure containing 
parts; stainless steel; temperature service applications­
elevated; temperature service applications-high; valves 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
These requirements shall not be considered unless specified in the order, in which event, the 
supplementary requirements specified shall be made at the place of manufacture, unless otherwise 
agreed upon, at the purchaser's expense. The test specified shall be witnessed by the purchaser's 
inspector before shipment of material, if so specified in the order. The rationale for beginning the 
section numbering with S50 is to eliminate the possibility of confusion with supplementary 
requirements existing in individual product specifications. 
SSO. Macroetch Test 
S50.l A sample forging shall be sectioned and etched to 
show flow lines and internal imperfections. The test shall be 
conducted according to Method E381. 
S50.2 Acceptance limits shall be as agreed upon between 
the certifying organization and the purchaser. 
SSl. Heat Analysis 
S5 l.1 When secondary melting processes are employed, a 
heat analysis shall be obtained from each remelted ingot, or the 
product of each remelted ingot, from each primary melt. The 
chemical analysis thus determined shall conform to the require­
ments of the individual product specification. Note that the 
1407 