ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
examining specimen fractures and by plotting energy value and 
fracture appearance versus temperature from tests of notched 
bars at a series of temperatures. When the test temperature has 
been carried low enough to start cleavage fracture, there may 
be an extremely sharp drop in impact value or there may be a 
relatively gradual falling off toward the lower temperatures. 
This drop in energy value starts when a specimen begins to 
exhibit some crystalline appearance in the fracture. The tran­
sition temperature at which this embrittling effect takes place 
vaiies considerably with the size of the part or test specimen 
and with the notch geometry. 
AS.4.2 A problem peculiar to Charpy-type tests occurs 
when high-strength, low-energy specimens are tested at low 
temperatures. These specimens may not leave the machine in 
the direction of the pendulum swing but rather in a sidewise 
direction. To ensure that the broken halves of the specimens do 
not rebound off some component of the machine and contact 
the pendulum before it completes its swing, modifications may 
be necessary in older model machines. These modifications 
differ with machine design. Nevertheless the basic problem is 
the same in that provisions must be made to prevent rebound­
ing of the fractured specimens into any part of the swinging 
pendulum. Where design permits, the broken specimens may 
be deflected out of the sides of the machine and yet in other 
designs it may be necessary to contain the broken specimens 
within a certain area until the pendulum passes through the 
anvils. Some low-energy high-strength steel specimens leave 
impact machines at speeds in excess of 50 ft (15.3 m)/s 
although they were struck by a pendulum traveling at speeds 
approximately 17 ft (5.2 m)/s. If the force exerted on the 
pendulum by the broken specimens is sufficient, the pendulum 
will slow down and erroneously high energy values will be 
recorded. This problem accounts for many of the inconsisten­
cies in Charpy results reported by various investigators within 
the 10 to 25-ft-lbf (14 to 34 J) range. The Apparatus section 
(subsection regarding specimen clearance) of Test Methods 
E23 discusses the two basic machine designs and a modifica­
tion found to be satisfactory in minimizing jamming. 
AS.5 Velocity of Straining 
A5.5.1 Velocity of straining is likewise a variable that 
affects the notch behavior of steel. The impact test shows 
somewhat higher energy absorption values than the static tests 
above the transition temperature and yet, in some instances, the 
reverse is true below the transition temperature. 
AS.6 Correlation With Service 
A5.6.1 While Charpy or Izod tests may not directly predict 
the ductile or brittle behavior of steel as commonly used in 
large masses or as components of large structures, these tests 
can be used as acceptance tests of identity for different lots of 
the same steel or in choosing between different steels, when 
cmrelation with reliable service behavior has been established. 
It may be necessary to make the tests at properly chosen 
temperatures other than room temperature. In this, the service 
temperature or the transition temperature of full-scale speci­
mens does not give the desired transition temperatures for 
Charpy or Izod tests since the size and notch geometry may be 
so different. Chemical analysis, tension, and hardness tests may 
not indicate the influence of some of the important processing 
factors that affect susceptibility to brittle fracture nor do they 
comprehend the effect of low temperatures in inducing brittle 
behavior. 
A6. PROCEDURE FOR CONVERTING PERCENTAGE ELONGATION OF STANDARD ROUND TENSION TEST SPECIMEN 
TO EQUIVALENT PERCENTAGE ELONGATION OF STANDARD FLAT SPECIMEN 
A6.1 Scope 
A6. l .1 This method specifies a procedure for converting 
percentage elongation after fracture obtained in a standard 
0.500-in. (12.7 mm) diameter by 2-in. (51 mm) gauge length 
test specimen to standard flat test specimens ½ by 2 in. and 1 ½ 
by 8 in. (38.1 by 203 mm). 
A6.2 Basic Equation 
A6.2.1 The conversion data in this method are based on an 
equation by Bertella, and used by Oliver and others. The 
relationship between elongations in the standard 0.500-in. 
diameter by 2.0-in. test specimen and other standard specimens 
can be calculated as follows: 
e = e 0 [ 4.47 ( \IA)!L] 0 (A6.1) 
where: 
627 
e = 0 percentage elongation after fracture on a standard test 
specimen having a 2-in. gauge length and 0.500-in. 
diameter, 
e 
a 
= percentage elongation after fracture on a standard test 
specimen having a gauge length L and a cross-sectional 
area A, and 
= constant characteristic of the test material. 
A6.3 Application 
A6.3.1 In applying the above equation the constant a is 
characteristic of the test material. The value a = 0.4 has been 
found to give satisfactory conversions for carbon, carbon­
manganese, molybdenum, and chromium-molybdenum steels 
within the tensile strength range of 40 000 to 85 000 psi (275 
to 585 MPa) and in the hot-rolled, in the hot-rolled and 