SA-20/SA-Z0M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
minimum value, and if the average of the three specimens 
equals or exceeds the specified minimum value, a retest of 
three additional specimens may be made. Each of the three 
retest specimens shall equal or exceed the specified minimum 
value. 
16.2.3 If the required values are not obtained on Charpy 
V-notch retests as specified in 16.2.1 and 16.2.2, or if the 
values in the initial test are below the values required for retest, 
no further retests are permitted unless the plate is heat treated 
or reheat treated. After heat treatment or reheat treatment, a set 
of three specimens shall be tested and each shall equal or 
exceed the specified minimum value. 
16.2.4 If the option of 12.1.4.1 is used and the test result 
falls below the 7 5 ft- lbf [ 100 J] minimum specified, another test 
may be made using full-size test specimens. 
17. Retreatment 
17 .1 If any heat-treated plate fails to meet the mechanical 
requirements of the applicable product specification, the manu­
facturer or processor shall have have the option of heat treating 
the plate again. All mechanical-property tests shall be repeated 
and the plate surface shall be reexamined for surface defects 
when it is resubmitted for inspection. 
18. Rejection 
18.1 Any rejection based upon product analysis made in 
accordance with the applicable product specification shall be 
reported to the supplier and samples that represent the rejected 
plate shall be preserved for 2 weeks from the date of notifica­
tion of such rejection. In case of dissatisfaction with the results 
of the tests, the supplier shall have the option of making claim 
for a rehearing within that time. 
18.2 Plates that show injurious defects subsequent to their 
acceptance at the manufacturer's or processor's works may be 
rejected. In such cases, the manufacturer or processor shall be 
notified. 
19. Test Reports 
19.1 The manufacturer or processor shall report the results 
of all tests required by the applicable product specification, the 
applicable supplementary requirements, and the purchase or­
der. The heat number, the plate identifier of the plate tested, and 
the nominal plate thickness shall be shown on the test report. 
The year-date of the specification to which the plates are 
furnished shall be included in the test report. 
19.1.1 In reporting elongation values, both the percentage 
increase and the original gage length shall be stated. 
19.2 For plates rolled from a strand-cast slab with a reduc­
tion ratio in the range from 2.0: 1 to 3.0: 1, exclusive, the 
specific practices (see 5.3.4 and 5.3.6) that were used by the 
manufacturer shall be reported, and the test reports shall state 
that the limitations of 5.3 have been met. 
19.3 All heat treatment, exclusive of subcritical heating to 
soften thermally cut edges, shall be reported, including tem­
perature ranges and times at temperature. This exclusion does 
not apply to those plates with specified minimum tensile 
strengths of 95 ksi [655 MPa] or higher, unless such subcritical 
78 
heating is accomplished at temperatures at least 75°F [40°C] 
below the minimum tempering temperature. The reports shall 
state whether the plates only, the test coupons only, or both 
plates and test coupons were heat treated. 
19 .4 If Charpy V-notch tests are specified, the test specimen 
size used shall be reported. 
19.5 If so specified in the purchaser order, the manufacturer 
shall also furnish a certificate of compliance stating that the 
plates have been manufactured, inspected, and tested in accor­
dance with the requirements of the applicable product specifi­
cation. For plates produced from coil, the processor shall 
furnish the required certification. 
19.6 For plates produced from coil and furnished without 
heat treatment or with stress relieving only, the results of all 
tests required by 11.1.2 shall be reported for each qualifying 
coil. 
19.7 Plates that are required to be heat treated, but have not 
been so heat treated, shall be certified by the responsible 
manufacturer on the basis of tests made on heat treated 
coupons and such tests shall be made and reported. For plates 
where the heat treatment of the coupons consists of quench and 
tempering, the manufacturer or processor responsible for the 
heat treatment of the plate shall repeat any required mechanical 
tests after plate heat treatment and they shall be the basis for 
final certification of the plate. 
19.8 A signature is not required on the test report; however, 
the document shall clearly identify the organization submitting 
the report. Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting the report is responsible for the content 
of the report. 
19.9 Copies of the original manufacturer's test report shall 
be included with any subsequent test report. 
19 .10 A test report, certificate of compliance, or similar 
document printed from or used in electronic form from an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be re­
garded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document must meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and the supplier. Notwithstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission is responsible for the content of the report. 
20. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
20.1 Packaging, marking, and loading for shipment shallbe 
in accordance with those procedures recommended by Guide 
A700. 
20.2 For USA Government Procurement-Marking for ship­
ment of material for civil agencies shall be in accordance with 
Fed. Std. No. 123. 
21. Keywords 
21.1 general delivery requirement; pressure containing 
parts; pressure vessel steels; steel plates; steel plates for 
pressure vessel applications 