ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-788/SA-788M 
intended to increase and may be contained by a radially 
oriented tapered roller. 
3.3.6 saddening, n-term used in the open die forging 
industry to describe the initial hot working of an ingot for 
surface compaction and flute working surface prior to full 
working of the ingot cross section. 
3.3.6.1 Discussion-The term is also extended to initial hot 
working intended to give consolidation of ingot central areas 
prior to upsetting when making products such as turbine and 
generator rotors and tube sheets. 
3.3.7 slab forging, n-forging, sometimes referred to as a 
forged plate, that is usually square or rectangular in shape, with 
a thickness appreciably smaller than the other dimension. The 
hot working may include upsetting. 
3.4 billets and blooms, n-interchangeable terms represent­
ing hot-worked semi-finished product intended as a starting 
stock for making forgings. 
3.4.1 Discussion-No size limitations are assumed for ei­
ther term. Cast shapes produced by a continuous casting 
process, without subsequent work, are considered to be ingots 
for the purposes of this specification, and if supplied as billets 
or blooms must carry the descriptor Cast Billet or Cast Bloom. 
3.5 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.5.1 bottom pouring, n-steel from a single heat, or from a 
multiple heat tapped into a common ladle (see 8.1.1 and 8.1.2), 
introduced into ingot mold(s) such that they are filled from the 
bottom up. One or more molds can be set up on an individual 
plate, and more than one plate may be poured in sequence from 
a heat. 
3.5.2 ingot, n-the product obtained when molten steel, 
upon being cast into a mold, is subsequently capable of being 
wrought in conformance with 3.1. Open-ended molds, which 
are usually cooled and used, for example, in the continuous 
casting of steel, are considered to be included in this definition. 
3.5.3 intercritical heat treatment, n-use of a multi-stage 
heat treatment procedure in which the material is first austen­
itized at a temperature above the upper critical temperature 
(Ac3) followed by cooling below the lower critical temperature 
(Acl). The material is then reheated to a temperature in the 
intercritical range between the Acl and the Ac3 and again 
cooled below the Ac 1, followed by subcritical tempering in the 
range specified in the material specification. 
3.5.3.1 Discussion-This procedure is generally applicable 
to low hardenability carbon and low alloy steels that would 
usually have a microstructure of ferrite and pearlite in the heat 
treated section size of the component being heat treated. 
3.5.4 precipitation deoxidation, n-steelmaking process in 
which primary deoxidation is achieved by the addition of 
strong deoxidizing agents, such as aluminum, early in the 
process, and holding the steel in the molten state for sufficient 
time for the products of deoxidation to separate from the melt 
to the slag. 
3.5.5 sequential or continuous strand casting, n-steel from 
several heats poured consecutively into a cooled open-ended 
mold to form a continuous cast product with a change from 
heat to heat along its length (see 8.1.5). 
3.5.6 strand casting, n-steel from one heat poured into a 
cooled open-ended mold to form a continuous strand or 
strands. 
3.5.7 vacuum carbon deoxidation (VCD), n-steelmaking 
process in which primary deoxidation occurs during vacuum 
treatment as a result of the carbon-oxygen reaction. In order for 
primary deoxidation to occur during vacuum treatment, deoxi­
dizing agents such as aluminum or silicon are not to be added 
to the melt in any significant amount prior to the vacuum 
treatment operation. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 It shall be the responsibility of the purchaser to specify 
all requirements that are necessary for forgings under the 
applicable product specification. Such requirements to be 
considered include, but are not restricted to, the following: 
4.1.1 Quantity, 
4.1.2 Dimensions, including tolerances and surface finishes. 
4.1.3 Specification number with type, class, and grade as 
applicable (including year date), and should include: 
4.1.4 Number of copies of the material test report. 
4.1.5 Choice of testing track from the options listed in Test 
Methods A1058 when forgings are ordered to a suffix M 
product standard. If the choice of test track is not made in the 
ordering information then the default ASTM track shall be used 
as noted in Test Methods A1058. 
4.2 Additional information including the following may be 
added by agreement with the supplier: 
4.2.1 Type of heat treatment when alternative methods are 
allowed by the product specification, 
4.2.2 Supplementary requirements, if any, and 
4.2.3 Additional requirements (see 1.4, 16.1.5, and 16.1.6). 
4.2.4 Repair welding NOT permitted. 
4.3 For dual format specifications, unless otherwise 
specified, the inch-pound units shall be used. 
5. Melting Process 
5.1 Unless otherwise specified in the product specification, 
the steel shall be produced by any of the following primary 
processes: electric-furnace, basic oxygen, vacuum-induction 
(VIM), or open-hearth. The primary melting may incorporate 
separate degassing or refining and may be followed by second­
ary melting, using electro slag remelting (ESR) or vacuum arc 
remelting (VAR). 
5.1.1 The steel shall be fully killed. 
5.2 The molten steel may be vacuum-treated prior to or 
during pouring of the ingot. 
5.2.1 When vacuum treatment of the molten steel is re­
quired by the product specification the following conditions 
shall apply: 
5.2.1.1 When the vacuum stream degassing process is used, 
the vacuum system must be of sufficient capacity to effect a 
blank-off pressure low enough (usually less than 1000 µm) to 
break up the normal tight, rope-like stream of molten metal 
into a wide-angled conical stream of relatively small droplets. 
1275 