SA-874/SA-874M ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details of the 
supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. The specified 
tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
S1. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S1.1 Castings shall be examined for surface discontinuities 
by magnetic particle examination. The examination shall be in 
accordance with Guide E 709. The extent of examination and 
the basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
S2. Ultrasonic Examination 
S2.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
ultrasonic examination. The examination procedures and ac­
ceptance criteria shall be agreed upon between the manufac­
turer and purchaser. 
S3. Liquid Penetrant Examination 
S3.l Castings shall be examined for surface discontinuities 
by means of liquid penetrant examination. The examination 
shall be in accordance with Test Method E 165. Areas to be 
inspected, methods and types of liquid penetrants to be used, 
developing procedure, and basis for acceptance shall be agreed 
upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S4. Radiographic Examination 
S4.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of X rays or gamma rays. The procedure shall be in 
accordance with Guide E 94, and types and degrees of discon­
tinuities considered shall be judged by Reference Radiographs 
E 689. The extent of examination and basis for acceptance 
shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S5. :Fracture Toughness 
S5.1 Fracture toughness testing shall be performed on 
samples removed from the casting. The method of fracture 
toughness testing, the location from which the samples are 
removed, the number of tests performed, and the acceptance 
requirements shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. 
S6. Nodule Count 
S6.1 The nodule count per unit area shall be determined by 
examining 100 X micrographs [see Note (I)]. The samples for the 
rnicrographs shall be removed from the casting at locations agreed 
upon. The inspection method and the acceptance requirements 
shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
Test Method E 562 may be used for guidance. 
NOTE !:_Electric Power Research Institute Project 2813-1, "Relationships 
Between Ductile Iron Fracture Toughness and Microstructure," December 1986, 
provides background information. 
1374 