ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-335/SA-335M (ASTM A335/A335M) 
17 .1.4.1 Pipe shall be ordered to nominal pipe size and 
schedule specified in ASME B36.10M 
Example: A335/A335M Pipe P-11 NPS 12 Sch 40 
Specification Number 
Pipe 
Grade 
NPS 
Wall 
17.1.4.2 
Specification Number 
Tube 
Grade 
Outside Diameter 
Wall 
ASTM A335/A335M 
p 
P-11 
12 
0.375 
ASTM A335/A335M 
T 
P-11 
0.250 
0.035 
17.1.5 Ordering Information-Orders for material under 
this specification shall include the following in addition to the 
requirements of Section 3: 
17.1.5.1 Pipe or tube, 
17.1.5.2 Part number, 
17 .1.5.3 Ultrasonic inspection, if required, 
17 .1.5 .4 If shear wave test is to be conducted in two 
opposite circumferential directions, and 
17 .1.5.5 Level of preservation and packing required. 
18. Keywords 
18.1 alloy steel pipe; high temperature service; seamless 
steel pipe; steel pipe; temperature service applications 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUffiEMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1. 1 Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. 
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo­
sition requirements shall be rejected. 
S2. Transverse Tension Tests 
S2.1 A transverse tension test shall be made on a specimen 
from one end or both ends of each pipe NPS 8 and over. If this 
supplementary requirement is specified, the number of tests per 
pipe shall also be specified. If a specimen from any length fails 
to meet the required tensile properties (tensile, yield, and 
elongation), that length shall be rejected subject to retreatment 
in accordance with Specification A999/A999M and satisfac­
tory retest. 
S3. Flattening Test 
S3.l The flattening test of Specification A999/A999M shall 
be made on a specimen from one end or both ends of each pipe. 
Crop ends may be used. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails because of lack of ductility 
prior to satisfactory completion of the first step of the flattening 
test requirement, that pipe shall be rejected subject to retreat­
ment in accordance with Specification A999/A999M and 
satisfactory retest. If a specimen from any length of pipe fails 
because of a lack of soundness that length shall be rejected, 
unless subsequent retesting indicates that the remaining length 
is sound. The bend test shall be substituted for the flattening 
test for pipe whose diameter exceeds NPS 25 and whose 
diameter to wall thickness ratio is 7 .0 or less. 
S4. Metal Structure and Etching Tests 
S4. l The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate portions of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 
and reasonably uniform material free from injurious 
laminations, cracks, and similar objectionable defects. If this 
supplementary requirement is specified, the number of tests per 
pipe required shall also be specified. If a specimen from any 
length shows objectionable defects, the length shall be rejected, 
subject to removal of the defective end and subsequent retests 
indicating the remainder of the length to be sound and 
reasonably uniform material. 
Norn S4.1-Pending development of etching methods applicable to the 
product covered by this specification, it is recommended that the Recom­
mended Practice for a Standard Macro Etch Test for Routine Inspection of 
Iron and Steel, described in the Metals Handbook, Am. Soc. for Metals, 
1948 edition, p. 389, be followed. 
SS. Photomicrographs 
S5.1 When requested by the purchaser and so stated in the 
order, the manufacturer shall furnish one photomicrograph at 
100 diameters from a specimen of pipe in the as-finished 
condition for each individual size and wall thickness from each 
heat, for pipe NPS 3 and over. Such photomicrographs shall be 
suitably identified as to pipe size, wall thickness, and heat. No 
photomicrographs for the individual pieces purchased shall be 
required except as specified in Supplementary Requirement S6. 
Such photomicrographs are for information only, to show the 
actual metal structure of the pipe as finished. 
515 
S6. Photomicrographs for Individual Pieces 
S6.1 In addition to the photomicrographs required in accor­
dance with Supplementary Requirement S5, the purchaser may 
specify that photomicrographs shall be furnished from each 
end of one or more pipes from each lot of pipe NPS 3 and 
larger in the as-finished condition. The purchaser shall state in 
the order the number of pipes to be tested from each lot. When 
photomicrographs are required on each length, the photomi­
crographs from each lot of pipe in the as-finished condition 
which may be required under Supplementary Requirement S5 