SA-988/SA-988M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Hot lsostatically-Pressed Stainless Steel Flanges, Fittings, 
Valves, and Parts for High Temperature Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers hot isostatically-pressed, pow­
der metallurgy, stainless steel piping components for use in 
pressure systems. Included are flanges, fittings, valves, and 
similar parts made to specified dimensions or to dimensional 
standards, such as in ASME specification B16.5. 
1.2 Several grades of martensitic, austenitic, age hardening, 
and austenitic-ferritic stainless steels are included in this 
specification. 
1.3 Supplementary requirements are provided for use when 
additional testing or inspection is desired. These shall apply 
only when specified individually by the purchaser in the order. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. Unless the order specifies the applicable "M" 
specification designation (SI units), however, the material shall 
be furnished to inch-pound units. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as the standard. Within the text, 
the SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
1.6 The following safety hazards caveat pertains only to test 
methods portions 8.1, 8.2, 9.5 - 9.7, and Section 10 of this 
specification: This standard does not purport to address all of 
the safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety and health practices and determine the applica­
bility of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A262 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Austenitic Stainless Steels 
A275/A275M Practice for Magnetic Particle Examination of 
Steel Forgings 
A745/A745M Practice for Ultrasonic Examination of Aus­
tenitic Steel Forgings 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
A923 Test Methods for Detecting Detrimental Intermetallic 
Phase in Duplex Austenitic/Ferritic Stainless Steels 
A961/A961M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Steel Flanges, Forged Fittings, Valves, and Parts for 
Piping Applications 
B311 Test Method for Density of Powder Metallurgy (PM) 
Materials Containing Less Than Two Percent Porosity 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
E165/E165M Practice for Liquid Penetrant Examination for 
General Industry 
E340 Practice for Macroetching Metals and Alloys 
E606/E606M Test Method for Strain-Controlled Fatigue 
Testing 
G48 Test Methods for Pitting and Crevice Corrosion Resis­
tance of Stainless Steels and Related Alloys by Use of 
Ferric Chloride Solution 
2.2 MSS Standard: 
SP 25 Standard Marking System for Valves, Fittings, 
Flanges, and Unions 
1456 
• ~ 