ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-6/SA-6M 
Austenitic grain refining elements include, but are not limited 
to, aluminum, columbium (niobium), titanium, and vanadium. 
3.1.19 structural product-a hot-rolled steel plate, shape, 
sheet piling, or bar. 
3.1.20 coil-hot-rolled steel in coiled form that is intended 
to be processed into a finished structural product. 
3.1.21 manufacturer-the organization that directly controls 
the conversion of steel ingots, slabs, blooms, or billets, by 
hot-rolling, into an as-rolled structural product or into coil; and 
for structural products produced from as-rolled structural 
products, the organization that directly controls, or is respon­
sible for, the operations involved in finishing the structural 
product. 
3.1.21.1 Discussion-Such finishing operations include lev­
eling or straightening, hot forming or cold forming (if 
applicable), welding (if applicable), cutting to length, testing, 
inspection, conditioning, heat treatment (if applicable), 
packaging, marking, loading for shipment, and certification. 
3.1.22 processor-the organization that directly controls, or 
is responsible for, the operations involved in the processing of 
coil into a finished structural product. Such processing opera­
tions include decoiling, leveling or straightening, hot-forming 
or cold-forming (if applicable), welding (if applicable), cutting 
to length, testing, inspection, conditioning, heat treatment (if 
applicable), packaging, marking, loading for shipment, and 
certification. 
3 .1.22.1 Discussion-The processing operations need not be 
done by the organization that did the hot rolling of the coil. If 
only one organization is involved in the hot rolling and 
processing operations, that organization is termed the manu­
facturer for the hot rolling operation and the processor for the 
processing operations. If more than one organization is in­
volved in the hot rolling and processing operations, the 
organization that did the hot rolling is termed the manufacturer 
and an organization that does one or more processing opera­
tions is termed a processor. 
3.2 Refer to Terminology A941 for additional definitions of 
terms used in this standard. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 Information items to be considered, if appropriate, for 
inclusion in purchase orders are as follows: 
4.1.1 ASTM product specification designation (see 1.1) and 
year-date; 
4.1.2 Name of structural product (plate, shape, bar, or sheet 
piling); 
4.1.3 Shape designation, or size and thickness or diameter; 
4.1.4 Grade, class, and type designation, if applicable; 
4.1.5 Condition (see Section 6), if other than as-rolled; 
4.1.6 Quantity (weight [mass] or number of pieces); 
4.1.7 Length; 
4.1.8 Exclusion of either structural product produced from 
coil or structural product produced from an as-rolled structural 
product (see 5.4 and Appendix Xl), if applicable; 
4.1.9 Heat treatment requirements (see 6.2 and 6.3), if any; 
4.1.10 Testing for fine austenitic grain size (see 8.3.2); 
7 
4.1.11 Mechanical property test report requirements (see 
Section 14), if any; 
4.1.12 Special packaging, marking, and loading for ship­
ment requirements (see Section 19), if any; 
4.1.13 Supplementary requirements, if any, including any 
additional requirements called for in the supplementary re­
quirements; 
4.1.14 End use, if there are any end-use-specific require­
ments (see 18.1, 11.3.4, Table 22 or Table Al.22, and Table 24 
or Table Al.24); 
4.1.15 Special requirements (see 1.10), if any; and 
4.1.16 Repair welding requirements (see 9.5), if any. 
5. Materials and Manufacture 
5 .1 The steel shall be made in a basic-oxygen or electric-arc 
furnace, possibly followed by additional refining in a ladle 
metallurgy furnace (LMF) or secondary melting by vacuum­
arc remelting (VAR) or electroslag remelting (ESR). 
5.2 The steel shall be killed. 
5.3 The steel shall be strand cast or cast in stationary molds. 
5.3.1 Strand Cast: 
5.3.1.1 When heats of the same nominal chemical compo­
sition are consecutively strand cast at one time, the heat 
number assigned to the cast product need not be changed until 
all of the steel in the cast product is from the following heat. 
5.3.1.2 When two consecutively strand cast heats have 
different nominal chemical composition ranges, the manufac­
turer shall remove the transition material by an established 
procedure that positively separates the grades. 
5.4 Structural products shall be produced from an as-rolled 
structural product or from coil. 
5.5 Where part of a heat is rolled into an as-rolled structural 
product and the balance of the heat is rolled into coil, each part 
shall be tested separately. 
5.6 Structural products produced from coil shall not contain 
splice welds, unless previously approved by the purchaser. 
6. Heat Treatment 
6.1 Where the structural product is required to be heat 
treated, such heat treatment shall be performed by the 
manufacturer, the processor, or the fabricator, unless otherwise 
specified in the applicable product specification. 
NOTE 2-When no heat treatment is required, the manufacturer or 
processor has the option of heat treating the structural product by 
normalizing, stress relieving, or normalizing then stress relieving to meet 
the applicable product specification. 
6.2 Where the heat treatment is to be performed by other 
than the manufacturer, the order shall so state. 
6.2.1 Where the heat treatment is to be performed by other 
than the manufacturer, the structural products shall be accepted 
on the basis of tests made on test specimens taken from full 
thickness test coupons heat treated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the applicable product specification 
or in the purchase order. If the heat-treatment temperatures are 
not specified, the manufacturer or processor shall heat treat the 
test coupons under conditions the manufacturer or processor 