SA-47 /SA-47M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
7.4.7 Tension test results, obtained in accordance 
with the above subsections, must conform to the values of 
Table 1 for acceptance under this specification except as 
provided in 7.4.3. 
7 .4.8 When agreed upon between manufacturer and 
purchaser, tested specimens or unbroken test bars shall be 
preserved by the manufacturer for a period of three months 
after the date of the test report. 
1.5 Hardness Test- If the purchase agreement requires 
hardness testing, the acceptable hardness range shall be 
stated and a test location clearly shown on the covering 
drawing(s). 
7.5.1 Hardness Test Method - The Brinell method 
of hardness testing in accordance with Test Method E 10 
shall be employed whenever possible. 
7.5.2 For castings of such size or shape that do not 
permit Brinell testing with the standard 3000-kgf load, the 
500 kgf may be employed, the hardness number being 
reported as HB 10/500/15. In very unusual cases where it 
is impossible to use the Brinell method, the Rockwell 
test may be substituted, using Test Methods E 18 with 
an appropriate Rockwell scale. Conversions of hardness 
values from one method to another according to Standard 
E 140, which does not specifically cover cast irons, are 
approximate only and, therefore, are generally inadvisable. 
7.5.3 Sufficient material shall be removed from the 
cast surface to ensure that the measured surface is represen­
tative. 
7 .5.4 Sampling procedures and the frequency of 
hardness testing shall be fully detailed on the purchase 
agreement. Otherwise, hardness tests shall be performed 
at the discretion of the producer. 
7 .5.5 Castings failing to conform to the required 
hardness range may be reheat treated and retested. If after 
reheat treating they still fail the hardness requirements, 
they shall be rejected. 
7.5.6 Typical hardness maximums for this grade of 
malleable iron are listed in Table 2. 
8. Microstructure Requirements 
8.1 The microstructure of the malleable iron shall con­
sist of temper carbon nodules distributed through a ferritic 
matrix and shall be free of excessive pearlite, massive 
carbides, and primary. graphite. 
8.2 When agreed upon by the purchaser and producer, 
the maximum decarburization at any as-cast surface after 
heat treatment may be stipulated in writing, as measured 
by visual depletion of combined carbon after polishing, 
etching in nital, and viewing at lOOX. 
132 
8.3 In reference work, the metallographic practice rec­
ommended in Test Method A 247 shall be followed. 
9. Soundness Requirements 
9.1 All castings, on visual examination, shall be sound 
and free of obvious shrinkage and porosity. 
9.2 If the purchaser requires soundness tests to be per­
formed, it shall be so stated in the purchase agreement, and 
the method and soundness requirements shall be detailed. 
10. Dimensional Requirements 
10.1 The castings shall conform to the dimensions 
given on drawings furnished by the purchaser, or to the 
dimensions established by the pattern equipment supplied 
by the purchaser, or as agreed upon in specific cases to 
gages supplied by the purchaser. Variations in any solid 
dimensions will be permitted, as shown in Table 3, unless 
otherwise agreed upon by the foundry and purchaser. 
11. Workmanship, Finish and Appearance 
11.1 The surface of the casting shall be inspected visu­
ally, particularly in critical areas, for such surface defects 
as cracks, hot tears, adhering sand and scale, cold shuts, 
and gas holes. 
11.2 No repairing or plugging of any kind shall be 
permitted unless written permission is granted by the pur­
chaser. Welding or brazing is not permitted under any 
circumstances. 
11.3 DELETED 
12. Responsibility for Inspection 
12.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or pur­
chase order, the manufacturer shall be responsible for car­
rying out all the tests and inspections required by this 
specification, using his own or other reliable facilities, and 
he shall maintain complete records of all such tests and 
inspections. Such records shall be available for review by 
the purchaser. 
12.2 The purchaser reserves the right to perform any 
inspection set forth in the specification where such inspec­
tions are deemed necessary to ensure that supplies and 
services conform to the prescribed requirements. 
13. Rejection and Rehearing 
13.1 Any casting or lot of castings failing to comply 
with the requirements of this specification may, where 
possible, be reprocessed, retested, and reinspected. If the 