ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-985/SA-98SM 
S21. Heat-Treatment Furnace Record 
S21.1 A heat-treatment chart showing time and temper­
ature shall be prepared and be available for inspection by 
the purchaser. 
S22. Heat Treatment 
S22.1 Test specimens shall be heat treated together 
with the castings they represent. Heat-treated specimens 
shall be tested and shall meet the tensile and impact proper­
ties specified. 
S22.2 The remaining test specimens from Supplemen­
tary Requirement S22. l representing the casting shall be 
treated thermally after the final (foundry) heat treatment 
to simulate heat treatments below the transformation tem­
perature, which the casting may receive during fabrication, 
and then tested for mechanical properties. Time, tempera­
ture, and cooling rate shall be as stated in the order. In the 
case of postweld heat treatment, the total time at tempera­
ture or temperatures for the test material shall be at least 
80% of the total time at temperature or temperatures during 
actual postweld heat treatment of the fabrication of which 
the casting or castings are a part. The total time at tempera­
ture or temperatures for the test material may be performed 
in a single cycle. When this Supplementary Requirement 
is specified, the welding qualification test metal must be 
processed in the same manner. 
S23. Macroetch Test 
S23.1 Apply Supplementary Requirement S 1 for the 
spectrographic determination and reporting of the total 
residual aluminum content of all heats of ferritic and mar­
tensitic steels subjected to this macroetch test. 
S23.2 When the heat analysis indicates a total residual 
aluminum content in excess of 0.08%, the manufacturer 
shall etch a cross section of the casting with the heaviest 
section for which this supplementary requirement is 
invoked, or a coupon attached to that heaviest section or 
an area directly under a riser (see Note S23.l). Cross sec­
tions, from a separately cast test block from the same heat 
and a thickness representative of the heaviest section of 
castings purchased under this supplementary requirement, 
also may be used for macroetch testing. The etching shall 
be performed on the selected section after its heat treatment, 
that is, after annealing, normalizing, or quenching and 
tempering following the initial cooling of the steel below 
the transformation range. 
NOTE S23.l - High-strength martensitic castings, in particular, may 
be damaged beyond use if the etch is applied directly to the casting. 
S23.3 The preparation of the surface and the macro­
etching procedure with solution No. 1 (1: 1 HCl) of Table 5 
in Test Method E 340 shall be followed. The resulting 
etched surface shall be compared and rated with the refer­
ence photographs in Fig. S23.l depicting ten levels of 
severity of intergranular network structures indicative of 
the presence of aluminum nitride, or other constituents 
prone toward precipitating at grain boundaries during solid­
ification and subsequent cooling. Table S23.1 relates the 
severity levels shown in these photographs with specific 
delineation widths and percent of boundary outlining in 
the etched structures. 
S23.4 Castings represented by etched structures exhib-
. iting a network rating in excess of Severity Level 4 shall 
be considered unacceptable until further evaluations are 
completed. The acceptability of individual castings may 
be determined by etching sections of each casting to ascer­
tain the network severity level. Disposition ofunacceptable 
castings shall be a matter of agreement between the manu­
facturer and purchaser. Those castings exhibiting etched 
severity levels greater than four may be further evaluated 
by any of the following agreed upon methods. 
S23.4.1 Fracture testing to determine the amount of 
"rock candy" structure. 
S23.4.2 Mechanical testing (bend, tensile, and so 
forth) to determine the ductility characteristics. 
S23.4.3 Weld testing to determine crack susceptibil­
ity in the heat~affected zone of a circular groove welded 
with cellulose coated electrodes. 
S23.5 Alternatively, by agreement, it is permissible 
to subject castings from an unacceptable heat to a high 
temperature solution treatment prior to the normal produc­
tion heat-treatment and subsequently macroetch test each 
casting. 
S24. Specified Ferrite Content Range 
S24.1 The chemical composition of the heat shall be 
controlled such that the ferrite content, as determined by 
the chemical composition procedure of Practice 
A 800 / A 800M, shall be in accordance with the specified 
ferrite content range. 
S24.2 The specified ferrite content range shall be as 
agreed upon between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
The minimum specified ferrite content range shall be 10% 
with the minimum ferrite content being no lower than 
the percent necessary to achieve the minimum mechanical 
properties required for the alloy. 
S24.3 Should the purchaser wish to have the ferrite 
content determined by either magnetic response or metallo­
graphic methods, the purchaser should impose Supplemen­
tary Requirement S 1 or S2 of Practice A 800 / A 800M. 
1445 