ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Table IV-100-1 
Hot lsostatically Pressed Component Requirements for Austenitic Stainless Steels, 
Austenitic-Ferritic (Duplex) Stainless Steels, Martensitic Stainless Steels, Ferritic Steels, and Nickel 
Alloys 
Category 
Chemistry 
Mechanical properties 
Heat treatment 
Grain size 
Control of powder prior to hot 
isostatic pressing 
Requirement 
The chemistry requirements of the hot isostatically pressed components shall be identical to those of the 
corresponding wrought product form. 
The room-temperature mechanical properties of hot isostatically pressed components shall be identical to 
those that apply to the corresponding wrought product form. 
The heat-treatment requirements that apply to the hot isostatically pressed components shall be identical to 
those that apply to the corresponding wrought product form. 
The grain size requirements that apply to the hot isostatically pressed components shall be identical to those 
that apply to the corresponding wrought product form. 
The maximum allowable powder size shall be 0.020 in. (5 mm) and the powder shall be produced by the gas 
atomization process. 
Immediately following atomization, the powder shall remain shielded by an inert gas until the powder is 
below a temperature of 105°F (40°C), to ensure that the detrimental absorption ofoxygen and other 
deleterious contaminants is no longer possible. 
For austenitic stainless steels, duplex stainless steels, martensitic stainless steels, and nickel alloys, powder 
should be protected during storage to prevent the detrimental pickup of oxygen and other contaminants. 
For ferritic steels, following atomization, powders shall be stored under a positive nitrogen or argon 
atmosphere or vacuum to minimize potential oxidation or contamination. 
Mandatory testing of hot isostatically The chemical composition of a sample from one part from each lot of parts shall be determined by the 
pressed components manufacturer. The composition of the sample shall conform to the chemistry requirements of the defined . 
wrought product form. 
The microstructure shall be examined at 20-S0X, 100-Z00X, and 1,000-2,000X. The microstructure shall be 
reasonably uniform and shall be free of voids, laps, cracks, and porosity. One sample from each production 
lot shall be examined. The sample shall be taken from the component, stem, protrusion, or test part made 
from a sirigle powder blend consolidated in the same hot isostatic press, using the same pressure, 
temperature, and time parameters, and heat treated in the same final heat-treatment charge at the option 
of the producer, after hot isostatic pressing or after final heat treatment. 
Samples for mechanical testing shall be from the component,stem, protrusion, or test part made from a single 
powder blend consolidated in the same hot isostatic press, using the same pressure, temperature, and time 
parameters, and heat-treated in the same final heat-treatment charge. 
Material certification requirements A manufacturer's certification shall be furnished to the purchaser stating that material has been 
GENERAL NOTES: 
manufactured, tested, and inspected in accordance with the applicable specification, and that the test 
results on representative samples meet specification requirements. A report of the test results shall be 
furnished. 
(a) When a grade does exist in a defined wrought product form for alloys other than those cited, an inquirer may request the inclusion of 
hot isostatically pressed (HIP) components of this grade. However, the Committee may have additional requirements placed on the 
grade to accept this request. 
(b) If the material is to be used at temperatures where the time-dependent performance will determine the allowable stress values, the 
requirements ·of Mandatory Appendix IV relative to the provision of data for new materials shall apply. 
1626 