SA-541/SA-541M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified 
by the purchaser in the inquiry or order. Details of these supplementary requirements shall 
be agreed upon by the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
Sl. Simulated Post-Weld Heat Treatment of 
Mechanical Test Samples 
Sl.1 All test coupons shall be subjected to single or 
multiple heat treatments at subcritical temperatures prior 
to testing. Such treatments are intended to simulate post­
weld or other treatments to which the forgings will be 
subjected during subsequent fabrication. The purchaser 
shall furnish the manufacturer with details of the desired 
heat treatment for the test coupons, including temperatures, 
times, and cooling rates. 
S2. Ultrasonic Inspection 
S2.1 Forgings shall be ultrasonically examined in 
accordance with the procedures of Practice 
A 388/ A 388M. 
S2.1.1 Longitudinal Wave Test: 
S2.1.1.1 Unless otherwise specified, the back 
reflection method of tuning shall be used in accordance 
with the Procedure Section (the paragraph regarding Back­
Reflection Technique) of Practice A 388/A 388M. 
S2.1.1.2 In addition to the reportable conditions 
of the Recording Section of Practice A 388/ A 388M, indi­
cations exceeding the resultant back reflection shall be 
recorded. 
S2.1.1.3 The following conditions are subject to 
_r_ej_ection: _ - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - -- -
( a) Complete loss of back reflection accompanied by 
an indication of a discontinuity. For this purpose, a back 
reflection less than 5% of full screen height shall be consid­
ered complete loss of back reflection. 
(b) An indication equal in amplitude to that of the back 
reflection established in an indication-free portion of the 
forging. 
S2.1.2 Angle Beam Test: 
S2.1.2.1 Calibration notches, calibration refer­
ence, and method of scanning shall be in accordance with 
the Procedure Section (the paragraph regarding 
AngleBeam Examination) of Practice A 388/A 388M. 
S2.1.2.2 A forging that contains a discontinuity 
that results in an indication exceeding the amplitude of the 
reference line is subject to rejection. 
S2.1.3 The report of the ultrasonic examination shall 
be in compliance with the Report Section of Practice 
A 388/ A 388M. 
S2.1.4 Additional nondestructive examination or tre­
panning may be employed to resolve questions of interpre­
tation of ultrasonic indications. The manufacturer shall 
accept responsibility for injurious conditions that will not 
be removed in final machining. 
S3. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S3.1 Each forging shall be inspected by magnetic parti­
cle methods described in Test Method A 275/A 275M. 
Acceptance and rejection standards shall be mutually 
agreed upon by the purchaser and manufacturer. 
S4. Charpy V-Notch Impact Transition Curve 
S4.1 Sufficient impact tests shall be made from the 
forging test material to establish a temperature-absorbed 
energy curve. The test temperature range shall be wide 
enough to establish the upper and lower shelf foot pound 
energies, with sufficient testing at intermediate tempera­
tures to permit plotting a reasonably smooth curve. 
S5. Additional Charpy Data 
S5.1 The percent shear fracture and mils or I11_illimetre_1; _ 
--onaterafexpaiision, defined in TestMethods and Defini­
tions A 370, shall be reported for each Charpy specimen 
tested. 
926 
S6. Charpy Impact Tests 
S6.1 Charpy impact tests shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 6 of this specification except 
that the test temperature shall be lower than that specified 
in Table 3. 
S7. Drop-Weight Test 
S7.1 Drop-weight tests shall be conducted in accor­
dance with the requirements of Test Method E 208. The 
fracture plane of the specimens shall coincide with the 
location required for other mechanical test specimens as 