SA-484/SA-484M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
4.1.2 Dimensions, including shape or form with diameter or 
width and thickness as applicable, length, and prints or 
sketches as applicable, 
4.1.3 Type or UNS designation, 
4.1.4 ASTM specification designation and edition year if 
other than the latest edition, 
4.1.5 Condition, 
4.1.6 Finish, 
4.1.7 Supplementary Requirements when invoked, 
4.1.8 Whether bars are to be rolled as bars or cut from strip 
or plate, when applicable, 
4.1.9 Preparation for delivery, 
4.1.10 Marking requirements, 
4.1.11 Surface preparation, for shapes, and 
4.1.12 Special requirements. 
NoTE 1-A typical ordering description is as follows: 5000 lb 
[2000 kg]; 1.000 in. [25 mm] round bar by 10 to 12 ft [3 to 4 rn]; Type 304 
or S30400; Specification A479/A479M; annealed, centerless ground; plus 
optional requirements, such as special marking instructions. 
5. Materials and Manufacture 
5.1 The material shall be made by any process. 
5.2 The material shall be furnished in one of the conditions 
detailed in the applicable product specification, for example, 
hot-worked; hot-worked and annealed; hot-worked, annealed, 
and cold-worked; or hot-worked, annealed, and heat-treated. 
5.3 The material shall be furnished in one of the finishes as 
detailed in Section 8 or further described in the applicable 
product specification, for example, hot-finished or cold­
finished. 
6. Chemical Composition 
6.1 Heat or Cast Analysis-The chemical analysis of each 
heat shall be determined in accordance with the applicable 
materials specification and Test Methods, Practices, and Ter­
minology A751. 
6.1.1 The analysis of each heat shall be made from a test 
sample taken during the pouring of the melt or from the 
in-process product later in the manufacturing flow. 
6.1.2 The heat analysis shall conform to the chemical 
requirements for each of the specified elements for the grade 
ordered, as listed in the applicable product specification. 
6.1.3 All commercial metals contain small amounts of 
elements other than those which are specified. It is neither 
practical nor necessary to specify limits for unspecified ele­
ments that can be present. The producer is permitted to analyze 
for unspecified elements and is permitted to report such 
analyses. The presence of an unspecified element and the 
reporting of an analysis for that element shall not be a basis for 
rejection unless the presence of that element cause the loss of 
a property typically expected for that metal, for the type and 
quality ordered. 
6.1.4 The purchaser is permitted to require in the purchase 
order a maximum limit for an individual element not specified 
in the product specification. Such a requirement for an element 
not listed in the product specification, when acknowledged in 
the order acceptance, shall be treated as a specified element, 
with determination of chemical analysis and reporting of that 
analysis. 
6.1.5 The purchaser is permitted to make the requirements 
for any element more stringent, that is, require higher mini­
mums for elements having minimum requirements or ranges 
with minimum requirements, or requiring lower maximums for 
elements having specified maximums, or ranges with maxi­
mums. The purchaser is not permitted to make chemical 
requirements less stringent. 
6.1.6 Analysis limits shall be established for specific 
elements rather than groups of elements, including but not 
limited to all others, rare earths, and balance, unless all 
elements in such a group are similar in technical effect and are 
associated in typical methods of chemical analysis. 
6.2 Product Analysis-When required, a product analysis 
shall be determined in accordance with Test Methods, 
Practices, and Terminology A751. The chemical composition 
thus determined shall conform to the tolerances shown in Table 
1. 
6.2.1 When the product requirement includes a ratio re­
quirement that is the quotient of two, or more, elements, the 
minimum required ratio determined from product analysis shall 
be at least 0.90x the minimum in the product specification. 
6.3 The steel shall not contain an unspecified element for 
the ordered grade to the extent that the steel conforms to the 
requirements of another grade in the referencing product 
specification, and any of the product specifications within the 
scope of this general requirements specification, for which that 
element has a specified minimum. 
7. Heat Treatment 
816 
7 .1 The heat treatments shown in this section are to be 
followed unless otherwise specified in the applicable product 
specification. 
7.2 Austenitic Grades: 
7.2.1 Except for strain-hardened grades (see 7.2.4), hot­
rolled grades (see 7.2.5), and UNS N08020 (see 7.2.6), all 
austenitic stainless steels shall be furnished in the solution 
annealed condition in accordance with Table 2, with subse­
quent light cold drawing for cold finishing and straightening 
permitted. 
7 .2.2 Except as indicated in Table 2, the austenitic grades 
shall be annealed, at the option of the manufacturer, by a 
separate annealing treatment or by process annealing. 
7 .2.2.1 The separate annealing treatment shall consist of 
heating the material to the minimum annealing temperature for 
the grade as listed in Table 2, holding for a sufficient time to 
permit grain boundary carbides to enter into solution, and 
cooling rapidly enough to prevent unacceptable grain boundary 
carbide precipitation. Except as indicated in Table 2, austenitic 
stainless steels solution annealed by a separate annealing 
treatment shall be capable of meeting the requirements of 
Practice E of Practices A262. Practice E of Practices A262 is 
not required unless specified on the purchase order. 
7.2.2.2 Process annealing shall consist of completing hot 
working above the minimum annealing temperature required 