ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE USE OF ASME MATERIAL (2s) 
SPECI Fl CATIONS 
The ASME material specifications in Section II, Part A or 
Section II, Part B shall be used when ordering, producing, 
and certifying materials for ASME BPV Code construction. 
The use of a specification not in Section II, Part A or Sec­
tion II, Part B is acceptable only when it is referenced in 
an approved Code Case. 
A complete list of ASME material specifications can be 
found in Mandatory Appendix II, Tables II-200-1 and II-
200-2. Since the body of ASME material specifications 
does not originate with the Section II committee, at times 
wording may be found that differs from ASME BPV Code 
requirements. This Statement of Policy outlines the Sec­
tion II committee's position on the following: 
(a) Scope. Some specifications contain statements in the 
Scope about the service temperatures for listed alloys. 
Others contain statements that restrict alloy application 
to a particular component (e.g., heat exchangers, conden­
sers). Such statements are to be viewed as guidance in the 
corresponding ASME material specification. Alloys ap­
proved for ASME BPV Code construction are restricted 
by maximum design temperatures stipulated in Section 
II, Part D, and any stipulations of the individual construc­
tion Codes. 
(b) Units. Specifications often designate one system of 
units as the standard for the specification with conver­
sions of the other being cited as for information only. 
Compliance and acceptance for the purposes of Code 
usage is not governed by this. Section II, Part D has a 
U.S. Customary volume and an SI volume for mechanical 
and physical properties of all materials approved for Code 
construction. 
(c) References. References to other material specifica­
tions within the text often carry the original title given 
to it by the parent organization. The following are two 
examples: 
(1) From 2021 Edition of Section II, Part A, SA-203 
4.1 Steelmaking Practice ~ The steel shall be killed and shall conform 
to the fine grain size requirement of Specification A20/A20M. 
1 
(2) From 2021 Edition of Section II, Part B, SB-98/ 
SB-98M 
9.1 Refer to the appropriate paragraphs in Specification B249/B249M 
with particular reference to the following tables. 
Such references shall be interpreted as referring to the 
corresponding ASME material specification. If no corre­
sponding ASME specification exists, then the user is 
bound to the latest edition of the cited specification. 
(d} Ordering Information. The Ordering Information 
section of some specifications state that furnishing test 
reports and certification is optional. This is not valid for 
ASME BPVC. When alloys are purchased for use in ASME 
construction, test reports and certifications shall be furn­
ished to the purchaser. 
(e] Listed Alloys. To be used for Code construction, any 
alloy listed in a specification shall also have allowable 
stress values or mechanical property values, as appropri­
ate, in the ASME BPV Code. Though exceptions exist, these 
values are typically found in Section II, Part D or a Code 
Case for most Code-approved materials. 
(fJ Table Notes. Table notes are mandatory. 
(g) Main Body Notes. Notes within the main body of the 
text are for information only. 
(h) Terminology. If a specification contains a term that 
has not been defined in the ASME BPV Code, then it is ac­
ceptable to refer to the term's definition set forth by the 
corresponding standard's organization (see Mandatory 
Appendix II, II-200 for information on how to identify 
the organization). 
Material produced to an acceptable material specifica­
tion is not limited to country of origin. Before the material 
is ordered, it is the responsibility of the user to ensure 
that the intended construction Code permits materials 
certified to the desired specification. 
With the exception of ASTM International, ASME has 
not entered into copyright agreements with publishers 
of material specifications. Limits on usage appear on the 
specification's cover sheets. For sources from which an of­
ficial English-language version of a specification can be 
purchased, see Nonmandatory Appendix A. 