ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-234/SA-234M (ASTM A234/A234M) 
~- small fittings, the bar code may be applied to the box or a 
substantially applied tag. 
21. Keywords 
21.1 pipe fittings-steel; piping applications; pressure con­
taining parts; pressure vessel service; temperature service 
applications-elevated 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
These requirements shall not be considered unless specified in the order, in which event, the 
supplementary requirements specified shall be made at the place of manufacture, unless otherwise 
agreed upon, at the purchaser's expense. The test specified shall be witnessed by the purchaser's 
inspector before shipment of material, if so specified in the order. 
St. Alternative Heat Treatment-Grade WP91 Type 1 and 
Type 2 
S 1.1 Grade WP91 Type 1 and Type 2 shall be normalized in 
accordance with 8.3.5 and tempered at a temperature, to be 
specified by the purchaser, less than 1350 °F [730 °C]. It shall 
be the purchaser's responsibility to subsequently temper the 
entire fitting in the temperature range of 1350 °F [730 °C] to 
1470 °F [800 °C] as a final heat treatment. All mechanical tests 
shall be made on material heat treated in accordance with 8.3.5. 
The certification shall reference this supplementary require­
ment indicating the actual tempering temperature applied. The 
notation "S l" shall be included with the required marking of 
the fitting. 
S2. Restricted Vanadium Content 
S2.1 The vanadium content of the fittings shall not exceed 
O.o3%. 
S3. Carbon Equivalent 
S3.l For grades WPB and WPC, the maximum carbon 
equivalent (C.E.), based on heat analysis and the following 
formula, shall be 0.50. 
Cr+Mo+V Ni+Cu 
5 +-1-5-
S3.2 A lower maximum carbon equivalent may be agreed 
upon between the purchaser and the supplier. 
S3.3 The C.E. shall be reported on the test report. 
S4. ASME Section III or Section VIII, Division 1 Construc­
tion 
S4. l Products welded with filler metal furnished under this 
specification that are intended for application under the rules of 
Section III or Section VIII, Division 1 of the ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code shall be manufactured by holders of the 
appropriate ASME Certificate of Authorization and Certifica­
tion Mark. The product is subject to all applicable requirements 
of Section III or Section VIII, Division 1, including welding, 
heat treatment, nondestructive examination, authorized inspec­
tion at the point of manufacture, and application of the 
Certification Mark. 
S4.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report form, 
signed by an Authorized Nuclear Inspector or Authorized 
Inspector, and a material test report shall be furnished for each 
lot of pipe fittings. 
S4.3 The material used to fabricate the pipe fittings shall 
conform to the applicable SA specification in ASME Boiler and 
Pressure Vessel Code, Section II. The welded joints shall be 
full penetration butt welds as obtained by double welding or by 
other means that will obtain the same quality of deposited weld 
metal on the inside and outside. Welds using metal backing 
strips that remain in place are prohibited. 
S4.4 Each piece of pipe fitting shall be so marked as to 
identify each such piece of pipe fitting with the lot and the 
material test report. 
335 
SS. Minimum Cooling Rate for Grade T91 Type 2 
S5.1 For Grade WP91 Type 2 material, the heat treatment 
shall ensure that following austenitizing the rate of cooling 
from 1650 °F to 900 °F [900 °C to 480 °C] is no slower than 
9 °F/min [5 °C/ min]. 