SA-656 /SA-656M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Hot-Rolled Structural Steel, High-Strength Low-Alloy Plate 
with Improved Formability 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers three types and five strength 
grades of high-strength low-alloy, hot-rolled structural steel 
plate for use in truck frames, brackets, crane booms, rail cars, 
and similar applications. Steels that conform to this specifica­
tion offer improved formability. These steels are normally 
furnished in the as-rolled condition. The type and strength 
grade furnished is as agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and the purchaser. The types and strength grades are shown in 
the tables. 
1.2 The maximum thickness of plates shall be as follows: 
Grade Plate Thickness, max, 
in.[mm] 
50 2 [50] 
60 1½ [40] 
70 1 [25] 
00 1• 
100 ½~~ 
1.3 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded as standard. Within the text, the SI units are 
shown in brackets. The values stated in each system are not 
exact equivalents; therefore, each system must be used inde­
pendently of the other. Combining values from the two systems 
may result in nonconformance with this specification. 
1.4 For plates produced from coil and furnished without 
heat treatment or with stress relieving only, the additional 
requirements, including additional testing requirements and the 
reporting of additional test results, of Specification A6/ A6M 
apply. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A6/ A6M Specification for General Requirements for Rolled 
Structural Steel Bars, Plates, Shapes, and Sheet Piling 
3. General Requirements for Delivery 
3 .1 Plates furnished under this specification shall conform 
to the requirements of the current edition of Specification 
A6/ A6M, for the specific plate ordered, unless a conflict exists, 
in which case this specification shall prevail. 
3.2 Coils are excluded from qualification to this specifica­
tion until. they are processed into finished plates. Plates 
produced from coil means plates that have been cut to 
individual lengths from a coil. The processor directly controls, 
or is responsible for, the operations involved in the processing 
of a coil into finished plates. Such operations include decoiling, 
leveling, cutting to length, testing, inspection, conditioning, 
heat treatment (if applicable), packaging, marking, loading for 
shipment, and certification. 
ND'I'E 1-For plates produced from coil and furnished without heat 
treatment or with stress relieving only, two test results are to be reported 
for each qualifying coil. Additional requirements regarding plate produced 
from coil are described in Specification A6/A6M. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 The steel shall be made to fine grain practice. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5.1 Heat analyses shall conform to the chemical require­
ments given in Table 1. Dependent upon thickness, grade, and 
intended application, variations in the chemical composition 
are permitted within the limits given in Table 1 for the 
applicable type. Where it is of particular importance, the 
manufacturer should be consulted for specific chemical com­
position. 
5.2 Product Analysis-If a product analysis is made, it shall 
conform to the requirements given in Table 1, subject to the 
product analysis tolerances of Specification A6/A6M. 
1068 