SA-194/SA-194M ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
Specification for 
Carbon Steel, Alloy Steel, and Stainless Steel Nuts for Bolts 
for High Pressure or High Temperature Service, or Both 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers a variety of carbon, alloy, and 
martensitic stainless steel nuts in the size range ¼ through 4 in. 
and metric M12 through MlO0 nominal. It also covers auste­
nitic stainless steel nuts in the size range ¼ in. and Ml2 
nominal and above. These nuts are intended for high-pressure 
or high-temperature service, or both. Grade substitutions with­
out the purchaser's permission are not allowed. 
1.2 Bars from which the nuts are made shall be hot-wrought. 
The material may be further processed by centerless grinding 
or by cold drawing. Austenitic stainless steel may be solution 
annealed or annealed and strain-hardened. When annealed and 
strain hardened austenitic stainless steel is ordered in accor­
dance with Supplementary Requirement S 1, the purchaser 
should take special care to ensure that 8.2.2, Supplementary 
Requirement Sl, and Appendix Xl are thoroughly understood. 
1.3 Supplementary requirements of an optional nature are 
provided. These shall apply only when specified in the inquiry, 
contract, and order. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. However, unless the order specifies the 
applicable "M" specification designation (SI units), the mate­
rial shall be furnished to inch-pound units. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. Within the text, the SI units are shown in 
brackets. 
248 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A153/A153M Specification for Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on 
Iron and Steel Hardware 
A276/A276M Specification for Stainless Steel Bars and 
Shapes 
A320/A320M Specification for Alloy-Steel and Stainless 
Steel Bolting for Low-Temperature Service 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A962/ A962M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Bolting Intended for Use at Any Temperature from Cryo­
genic to the Creep Range 
B633 Specification for Electrodeposited Coatings of Zinc on 
Iron and Steel 
B695 Specification for Coatings of Zinc Mechanically De­
posited on Iron and Steel 
B696 Specification for Coatings of Cadmium Mechanically 
Deposited 
B766 Specification for Electrodeposited Coatings of Cad­
mium 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
E566 Practice for Electromagnetic (Eddy Current/Magnetic 
Induction) Sorting of Ferrous Metals 
F606/F606M Test Methods for Determining the Mechanical 
Properties of Externally and Internally Threaded 
Fasteners, Washers, Direct Tension Indicators, and Rivets 