SA-688/SA-688M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
of such material shall be a matter for agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
18. Certification 
18.1 A test report, signed by an authorized employee or 
representative of the manufacturer, shall be furnished to the 
purchaser to indicate the specification and grade, seamless or 
welded, the results of the heat analysis, hardness and tensile 
properties. Product analysis will be reported only when re­
quested on the purchase order as provided in 4.1.7. 
19. Product Marking 
19.1 All tubes shall be marked with the heat number. 
19.2 Containers and packages shall be marked or tagged to 
show the purchaser's order number, the manufacturer's order 
number, specification, seamless or welded, grade, size and wall 
thickness, minimum or average, number of pieces contained in 
the package, and item number (if appropriate). 
20. Packaging 
20.1 All tubing shall be packaged and blocked in such a 
manner as to prevent damage in ordinary handling and trans­
portation. The boxes shall be constructed in such a manner that 
no nails, staples, screws, or similar fasteners are required to 
close and secure the box after the tubes have been placed in the 
box. The box shall be lined with plastic sheet or vapor barrier 
materials so as to prevent chloride contamination of the tube 
during handling, transportation, and storage. 
20.2 The U-bent tubes shall be arranged in boxes so that the 
smaller radius bends may be removed without disturbing larger 
radius bends. Tubes for an item number shall be boxed 
together. 
21. Keywords 
21.1 austenitic stainless steel; feedwater heater tubes; seam­
less tube; stainless steel tube; steel tube; welded steel tube 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirement or requirements may become a part of the specification 
when specified in the inquiry or invitation to bid, and purchase order or contract. These requirements 
shall not be considered, unless specified in the order, in which event the necessary tests shall be made 
by the manufacturer prior to the bending or shipment of the tubing. 
Sl. Nondestructive Eddy-Current Test 
S 1.1 Each tube in the finished condition, except for bending 
if that is required, shall be tested by passing it through an 
electric nondestructive tester capable of detecting defects on 
the entire cross section of the tube. Suitable instrumentation 
shall be used to clearly distinguish the artificial defects. The 
outside and inside surfaces of the tubes shall be free of loose 
scale, metallic particles, or other material which would tend to 
restrict signals or create electrical noise. The tubing shall be 
inspected by feeding it longitudinally through an inspection 
coil or coils with a diameter suitable for the diameter of tubing 
to be inspected. The instrument calibration shall be accom­
plished with a reference standard prepared from an appropriate 
length of selected tubing of the same size, grade, and physical 
condition as the material to be inspected. The standard shall be 
fed through the coil at the same speed at which the inspection 
of the tubing is performed. 
S1.2 The factors listed in S1.3 shall be selected or adjusted, 
or both, in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's 
instructions, for the particular instrument involved as required 
to achieve optimum instrument distinction between the refer­
ence defects and plain portions of the tube. 
S1.3 The following as well as other factors involved shall 
not be used in such a manner that they detract from the overall 
ability of the instrument to detect defects: test frequency, 
direct-current saturation level, filter networks, phase-analysis 
circuits, coil diameter, and instrument gain. 
S1.4 The reference standard shall consist of a defect-free 
sample of the same size, alloy, and condition (temper) as that 
being tested, and shall contain longitudinal and circumferential 
notches on the outside diameter establishing the rejection level 
of the tubing to be tested. Inside diameter notches, both 
longitudinal and transverse, shall also be a part of the reference 
standard. These inside notches may be larger than the outside 
notches, and are intended for use only to assure instrument 
phase settings capable of yielding optimum inside surface 
sensitivity. 
S1.4.1 All notches shall be produced by EDM methods. The 
outside diameter notches shall be of the dimensions shown in 
Table S 1.1 and Fig. S 1. 1. 
S 1.5 All tubing shall meet this specification. The instrument 
calibration shall be verified at the start of testing, after any shut 
down of the test equipment, after any test equipment 
adjustment, or at least every ½ h of continuous production 
testing or both. Tubes generating a signal above the outside 
diameter calibration standard sensitivity level shall be rejected. 
TABLE S1 .1 Notch Depth 
Wall,in. Depth,A in. Length, 
OD, in. [mm] [mm] max, Width, max [mm] in.rmml 
5/ato 1 [15.9 0.028 [0.7] 0.0045 [0.11] 0.375 [9.5] wall 
to 25.4], incl and or10%of thickness 
heavier wall thick- but not 
ness which- greater than 
ever is 0.062 in. 
greater [1.6mm] 
A The tolerance of notch depth shall be ± 8 % or± 0.0005 in. [0.01 mm], whichever 
is greater. Refer to Fig. S1 .1 for notch location orientation and length of calibration 
standard. 
1126 