SA-29/SA-29M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
4. Chemical Composition 
4.1 Limits: 
4.1.1 The chemical composition shall conform to the re­
quirements specified in the purchase order or the individual 
product specifications. For convenience, the grades commonly 
specified for carbon steel bars are shown in Table 1 and for 
alloy steel bars in Table 2. Bars may be ordered to these grade 
designations and when so ordered shall conform to the speci-
. fied limits by heat analysis. 
4.1.2 When compositions other than those shown in Tables 
1 and 2 are required, the composition limits shall be prepared 
using the ranges and limits shown in Table 3 for carbon steel 
and Table 4 for alloy steel. 
4.2 Heat or Cast Analysis: 
4.2.l The chemical composition of each heat or cast shall be 
determined by the manufacturer in accordance with Test 
Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751. 
4.2.2 The heat or cast analysis shall conform to the require­
ments specified in the product specification or purchase order. 
These can be the heat chemical range and limit for a grade 
designated in Tables 1 and 2, or another range and limit in 
accordance with 4.1.2, or with requirements of the product 
specification. 
Norn 2-Heat analysis for lead is not determinable since lead is added 
to the ladle stream while each ingot is poured. When specified as an added 
element to a standard steel, the percentage of lead is reported as 0.15 to 
0.35 incl, which is the range commonly specified for this element. 
4.2.3 If requested or required, the heat analysis shall be 
reported to the purchaser or his representative. 
4.2.4 Reporting of significant figures and rounding shall be 
in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology 
A751. 
4.3 Product Analysis: 
4.3.1 Merchant quality carbon bar steel is not subject to 
rejection for product analysis unless misapplication of a heat is 
clearly indicated. 
4.3.2 Analyses may be made by the purchaser from finished 
bars other than merchant quality representing each heat of 
open-hearth, basic-oxygen, or electric-furnace steel. The 
chemical composition thus determined shall not vary from the 
limits specified in the applicable specification by more than the 
amounts prescribed in Table 5 and Table 6, but the several 
determinations of any element, excluding lead, in a heat may 
not vary both above and below the specified range. Rimmed or 
capped steel is characterized by a lack of homogeneity in its 
composition, especially for the elements carbon, phosphorus, 
and sulfur; therefore, when rimmed or capped steel is specified 
or required, the limitations for these elements shall not be 
applicable. Because of the degree to which phosphorus and 
sulfur segregate, the limitations for these elements shall not be 
applicable to rephosphorized or resulfurized steels. 
4.3.3 Samples for product analysis shall be taken by one of 
the following methods: 
4.3.3.1 Applicable to small sections whose cross-sectional 
area does not exceed 0.75 in.2 [500 mm 2 ] such as rounds, 
squares, hexagons, and the like. Chips are taken by milling or 
machining the full cross section of the piece. Drilling is not a 
feasible method for sampling sizes 0.75 in. 2 and smaller. 
4.3.3.2 Applicable to products where the width of the cross 
section greatly exceeds the thickness, such as bar size shapes 
and light flat bars. Chips are taken by drilling entirely through 
the steel at a point midway between the edge and the middle of 
the section, or by milling or machining the entire cross section. 
4.3.3.3 Applicable to large rounds, squares semifinished, 
etc. Chips are taken at any point midway between the outside 
and the center of the piece by drilling parallel to the axis or by 
milling or machining the full cross section. In cases where 
these methods are not practicable, the piece may be drilled on 
the side, but chips are not taken until they represent the portion 
midway between the outside and the center. 
4.3.3.4 When the steel is subject to tension test 
requirements, the tension test specimen can also be used for 
product analysis. In that case, chips for product analysis can be 
taken by drilling entirely through the tension test specimens or 
by the method described in 4.3.3.1. 
4.3.4 When chips are taken by chilling, the diameter of the 
drill used shall conform to the following: 
Area of Sample Cross Section, Approximate Drill Diameter, 
in. 2 [cm 2 ] in. [mm] 
16 [1 OD] or less ½ [12.5] 
Over 16 [100] 1 [25.0] 
4.3.5 The minimum number of samples to be taken from 
material representing the same heat or lot before rejection by 
the purchaser shall be as follows: 
104 
Minimum Number 
of Samples 
15 tons [15 Mg] and under 4 
Over 15 tons [15 Mg] 6 
4.3.6 In case the number of pieces in a heat is less than the 
number of samples required, one sample from each piece shall 
be considered sufficient. 
4.3.7 In the event that product analysis determinations are 
outside the permissible limits as prescribed in 4.3.2, additional 
samples shall be analyzed and the acceptability of the heat 
negotiated between the purchaser and the producer. 
4.4 Referee Analysis-In case a referee analysis is required 
and agreed upon to resolve a dispute concerning the results of 
a chemical analysis, the referee analysis shall be performed in 
accordance with the latest issue of Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751, unless otherwise agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
5. Grain Size Requirement 
5.1 Austenitic Grain Size-All requirements for austenitic 
grain size control in Section 5 refer to the size of the austenite 
grain which forms during a subsequent bar reheating operation 
at or above the recrystallization temperature. These require­
ments do not apply to, nor do they in any way control, the p1ior 
austenite grain size or the ferrite grain size of the bar in the 
as-rolled condition. 
5.1.1 When a coarse austenitic grain size is specified, the 
steel shall have a grain size number of 1 to 5 exclusive as 