ASME BPVC.Il.A-2025 
(b) the temperature range of intended application 
(c) whether cyclic service is to be considered 
( d) whether external pressure is to be considered 
The inquirer shall identify all product forms, size 
ranges, and specifications or specification requirements 
for the material for which approval is desired. When 
available, the inquirer shall furnish information describ­
ing service experience in the temperature range 
requested. 
IV-300 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION 
The inquirer shall recommend to the BPV .Committee 
on Materials whether the chemical composition specified 
in the reference specification applies or whether restric­
tions to this composition shall be imposed for the in­
tended application. All elements required by the 
specification shall be reported. Elements within the speci­
fied compositional range that are known to influence 
strength, ductility, toughness, weldability, and behavior 
under service conditions shall also be reported. The 
method used for chemical analysis shall be sufficiently 
precise to provide an accurate measurement of the ele­
ments at the level at which they should be reported. 
Furthermore, note the following: 
[a) It is not required that all elements be analyzed by 
the same technique. 
(b) The existence of interferences between elements 
during analysis shall be considered. 
(c) If standards traceable to national standards labora­
tories are not available or not used, the applicant should 
describe the method or methods used and how precision 
and detection limits were determined. 
After review of the submitted data, the Committee re­
serves the right to request additional data (see IV-1700) 
or to modify the permitted compositional ranges for key 
elements so that they more accurately reflect the range 
of the elements of the submitted test heats. 
IV-400 METALLURGICAL STRUCTURE AND 
HEAT TREATMENT 
When applicable for the proposed material, the in­
quirer shall indicate the intended metallurgical struc­
tures, including the desired grain size range, to be 
achieved in order to comply with the mechanical proper­
ties requirements and, where applicable, fully describe 
the heat treatment (including cooling methods) to be ap­
plied to achieve these structures, the mechanical proper­
ties, and the expected behavior under service conditions. 
The inquirer shall report the melting and forming prac­
tices used to produce the evaluated product form(s). 
The heat treatment temperatures shall be representative 
of the proposed range. 
An explanation for the proposed heat treatment tem­
perature ranges shall be furnished. When such concepts 
apply, metallurgical transformation curves and informa­
tion on the transformation points and conditions for ap­
pearance of the major phases in the microstructure 
( e.g., continuous cooling transformation diagram or time­
temperature precipitation plots) would be beneficial for 
the Committee's consideration. 
IV-500 MECHANICAL PROPERTIES 
Test methods employed for the properties tested shall 
be those referenced in or by the material specifications, or 
shall be the appropriate ASTM test methods, recommend­
ed practices, or test methods described in accepted inter­
national standards. The test methods used shall be 
indicated in the data package. 
It is desired that the data be obtained using material re­
presentative of the range of effects of the key variables of 
composition, thickness, mechanical working, and heat 
treatment. It is desirable that, when applicable, test data 
also be provided for the range of heat treatment expo­
sures that may influence properties such as tensile 
strength, toughness, and stress rupture behavior. After 
consideration of the submitted data, the Committee re­
serves the right to modify the specification requirements. 
IV-600 DEFINITIONS FOR DATA 
COLLECTION PURPOSES 
casting lot: single production pour from a master heat. 
heat: quantity of metal with one chemical composition, 
produced by a recognized production process from a sin­
gle primary melt of the metal. Remelted ingot material is 
not recognized as a separate heat unless it is produced 
from a melt having a different chemical composition than 
the other heats. 
hot isostatically pressed component lot: a number of parts 
made from a single powder blend consolidated in the 
same hot isostatic press using the same pressure, tem­
perature, and time parameters, and heat treated in the 
same final heat-treatment charge. 
powder blend: a homogeneous mixture of powder from 
one or more heats of the same grade. The term "powder 
blend" shall be substituted for the term "heat" for hot iso­
statically pressed powder material in IV-300, IV-700, 
IV-900, IV-1200, IV-1400, and IV-1800. 
wrought lot: quantity of metal made by melting followed 
by working or by working and heat treatment as a unique 
batch. Different lots may come from the same heat and 
may be made into different product forms. Lot definitions 
are expected to be found in the applicable material 
specifications. 
1627 