ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-409 /SA-409M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1.1 At the request of the purchaser a product analysis of 
one coupon representing finished sheet or plate from each heat 
shall be made by the pipe manufacturer. The drillings for 
product analysis may be taken from shear crop or test speci­
mens. The results of product analysis shall conform to the 
requirements in Table 1 and shall be reported to the purchaser. 
S2. Radiographic Examination 
S2.1 Weld soundness shall be determined through radio­
graphic examination made in accordance with requirements as 
agreed upon between the pipe manufacturer and purchaser. 
S3. Corrosion Requirements 
S3.l Boiling Nitric Acid Test-Except for Grade TP321, 
coupons representing finished pipe made of nonmolybdenum­
bearing material (0.50 % and less molybdenum) shall meet the 
requirement of the boiling nitric acid test conducted according 
to Practice C of Practices A262. The condition of the test 
specimens and the corrosion rates are as follows: Type 347 and 
Type 348 shall be tested in the sensitized condition (heated for 
1 h at 1240 °F [675 °C]) and the rate of penetration shall not 
exceed 0.0020 in. [0.05 mm]/month. All other 
nonmolybdenum-bearing types, except for Grade TP321, 
shown in Table 1 shall be tested in the annealed and unsensi­
tized condition and the rate of penetration shall not exceed 
0.0015 in. [0.04 mm]/month. 
S3.2 Acidified Copper Sulfate Test-Coupons representing 
finished pipe made of molybdenum-bearing material and Type 
321 (over 0.50 % molybdenum) shall meet the requirements of 
the copper-copper sulfate-sulfuric acid test (intergranular cor­
rosion test) conducted in accordance with Practice E of 
Practices A262. The condition of the test specimen is as 
follows: All molybdenum-bearing types shown in Table 1 shall 
be tested in the annealed and unsensitized condition. Type 321 
shall be tested in the sensitized condition (heated for 1 h at 
1240 °F [675 °C]). All specimens shall meet the requirements 
of the prescribed bend test. 
S4. Ferrite Control of Weld Deposits 
S4.l The ferrite content of the deposited weld metal in any 
length of pipe may be determined. The procedural details 
pertaining to this subject (that is, welding, plate and weld 
deposit chemistry, testing equipment and method, number and 
location of test sites, and ferrite control limits) shall be a matter 
for agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
SS. Stabilizing Heat Treatment 
S5.1 Subsequent to the heat treatment required in 5.3, 
Grades TP321, TP347, and TP348 shall be given a stabilization 
heat treatment at a temperature lower than that used for the 
initial solution annealing heat treatment. The temperature of 
stabilization heat treatment shall be at a temperature as agreed 
upon between the purchaser and vendor. 
S6 Intergranular Corrosion Test 
S6.1 When specified, material shall pass intergranular cor­
rosion tests conducted by the manufacturer in accordance with 
Practices A262, Practice E. 
NoTE S6.1-Practice E requires testing on the sensitized condition for 
low carbon or stabilized grades, and on the as-shipped condition for other 
grades. 
S6.2 A stabilization heat treatment in accordance with 
Supplementary Requirement S5 may be necessary and is 
permitted in order to meet this requirement for the grades 
containing titanium or columbium. 
S7. ASME Section III or Section VIII, Division 1, Code 
Construction 
S7 .1 All products furnished under this SA specification are 
intended for application under the rules of Section III or for 
application under the rules of Section VIII-1. Furnishing of 
such products is limited to manufacturers who hold the 
appropriate ASME Certification Mark. Weld procedures, 
welders, and welding machine operators shall be qualified in 
accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
Section IX. 
S7 .2 The product shall meet all applicable requirements of 
Section III or Section VIII, Division 1, if applicable, including 
those requirements pertaining to heat treatment and butt welds. 
Authorized inspection at the point of manufacture and appli­
cation of the appropriate Certification Mark is required. 
S7.3 The applicable ASME partial data report form, signed 
by an authorized inspector, and a ce1tified mill test report shall 
be furnished for each lot of pipe. The term "lot" applies to all 
pipe of the same mill heat of material and wall thickness which 
is heat treated in one furnace charge. For pipe which is not heat 
treated or which is heat treated in a continuous furnace, a lot 
shall consist of each 200 ft [61 m] or fraction thereof of all pipe 
of the same null heat of material and wall thickness, subjected 
to the same heat treatment. For pipe which is heat treated in a 
batch-type furnace which is automatically controlled within a 
50 °F range and is equipped with recording pyrometer so that 
the heating records are available, a lot may be defined the same 
as for continuous furnaces. 
691 
S7.4 Each length of pipe shall be marked in such a manner 
as to identify each such piece with the "lot" and the represen­
tative certified mill test report. 