,~-
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-961/SA-961M 
S62.6 Repair welds shall not be made with E60XX elec­
trodes. Use of E70XX electrodes is recommended, and the 
resulting weld chemistry should meet the same chemistry 
criteria as the base metal as listed above. 
S62. 7 In addition to the requirements of product marking of 
the specification, a "HF" stamp or marking shall be provided 
on each component to identify that component complies with 
this supplementary requirement. 
S63 Pressure Equipment Directive-Mechanical Testing 
S63.1 Charpy impact testing shall be done at the lowest 
scheduled operating temperature but not higher than 68 °F [20 
oq. 
S63.2 The frequency of impact testing shall be the same as 
that specified in the product specification for the tension test, 
with three individual Charpy test specimens for each required 
tension test. 
S63.3 The minimum impact absorption energy for the 
Charpy test specimen shall be at least 20 ft/lb [27 J]. 
S63.4 The minimum elongation in the tension test shall be 
measured on a gauge length of five times the diameter of the 
test specimen, and it shall not be less than 14 %. 
S63.5 Impact and tension test results shall be included in the 
product certification. 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al.1 New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
Al.1.1 Application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
Al.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, shall be furnished. 
Al.1.4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
Al.LS The application shall state whether or not the new 
grade is covered by patent. 
A2. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF MATERIALS FROM OTHER A0l OR B02.07 SPECIFICATIONS 
A2.1 Wrought materials that are already covered by another 
A0l or B02.07 specification may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
A2.1.1 Application for the addition of a grade that is already 
covered in another A0l or B02.07 specification shall be made 
to the chair of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over that 
specification. 
A2.l.2 The chemical requirements, the specified mechani­
cal properties, and the heat treatment requirements of the grade 
being added shall be the same as those for the grade in the A0l 
or B02.07 specification in which the grade is presently covered. 
A2.1.3 The application shall provide the recommendations 
for all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
A2.1.4 The application shall state whether or not the grade 
is covered by patent. 
1409 