'--..___., 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-609 /SA-609M 
similar grid pattern for guidance in scanning. Grid numbers 
shall be stenciled on the casting for record purposes and 
for grid area identity. The stenciled grid number shall 
appear in the upper right hand comer of the grid. When 
grids are laid out on the casting surface and they encompass 
different quality levels, each specific area shall be evaluated 
in accordance with the requirements of the specific quality 
level designated for that area. 
16.2 Overlap - Scan over the surface allowing 10% 
minimum overlap of the working diameters of the 
search unit. 
16.3 Inspection Requirements - All surfaces specified 
for ultrasonic (UT) shall be completely inspected from 
both sides, whenever both sides are accessible. The same 
search unit used for calibration shall be used to inspect the 
casting. 
17. Additional Transducer Evaluation 
17.1 Additional information regarding any ultrasonic 
indication may be obtained through the use of other fre­
quency, type, and size search unit. 
18. Acceptance Criteria 
18.1 Rejectable Conditions - The locations of all indi­
cations having amplitudes greater than the 0.5 in. [13 mm] 
line given in 15.3.6, when amplitude three times (machined 
surfaces) or six times (cast surfaces) shall be marked on 
the casting surface. The boundary limits of the indication 
shall be determined by marking a sufficient number of 
marks on the casting surfaces where the ultrasonic signal 
equals one half the reference amplitude, 0.25 in. [6 mm]. 
To completely delineate the indication, draw a line around 
the. outer boundary of the center of the number of marks 
to form the indication area. Draw a rectangle or other 
regular shape through the indication in order to form a 
polygon from which the area may be easily computed. 
It is not necessary that the ultrasonic signal exceed the 
amplitude reference line over the entire area. At some 
locations within the limits of the indication, the signal may 
be less than the reference line, but nevertheless still present 
such that it may be judged as a continuous, signal indica­
tion. Rejectable conditions are as follows and when any 
of the conditions listed below are found, the indications 
shall be removed and repair welded to the applicable pro­
cess specification. 
18.2 Linear Indications - A linear indication is defined 
as one having a length equal to or greater than three times 
its width. An amplitude of 1/ 2 in. [13 mm], such as would 
result from tears or stringer type slag inclusion, shall be 
removed. 
18.3 Non-Linear Indications: 
18.3.1 Isolated Indications - Isolated indications 
shall not exceed the limits of the quality level designated 
by the customer's purchase order listed in Table 3. An 
isolated indication may be defined as one for which the 
distance between it and an adjacent indication is greater 
than the longest dimension of the larger of the adjacent 
indications. 
18.3.2 Clustered Indications - Clustered indica­
tions shall be defined as two or more indications that are 
confined in a 1 in. [25 mm] cube. Clustered indications 
shall not exceed the limits of the quality level designated 
by the customer purchase order in Table 4. Where the 
distance between indications is less than the lowest dimen­
sion of the largest indication in the group, the cluster shall 
be repair welded. 
18.3.3 The distance between two clusters must be 
greater than the lowest dimension of the largest indication 
in either cluster. If they are not, the cluster having the 
largest single indication shall be removed. 
18.3.4 All indications, regardless of their surface 
areas as indicated by transducer movement on the casting 
surface and regardless of the quality level required, shall 
not have a through wall distance greater than 1/ 3 T, where 
Tis the wall thickness in the area containing the indication. 
18.3.5 Repair welding of cluster-type indications 
need only be the extent necessary to meet the applicable 
quality level for that particular area. All other types of 
rejectable indications shall be completely removed. 
18.3.6 Repair welds of castings shall meet the quality 
level designated for that particular area of the casting. 
18.3.7 Any location that has a 75% or greater loss 
in back reflection and exceeds the area of the applicable 
quality level, and whose indication amplitudes may or may 
not exceed the 0.5 in. [13 mm] rejection line, shall be 
rejected unless the reason for the loss in back reflection 
can be resolved as not being caused by an indication. If 
gain is added and back echo is achieved without indication 
percent amplitude exceeding the 0.5 in. [13 mm] rejection 
line, the area should be accepted. 
19. Records 
19.1 Stenciling - Each casting shall be permanently 
stenciled to locate inspection zones or grid pattern for 
ease in locating areas where rejectable indications were 
observed. 
19.2 Sketch - A report showing the exact depth and 
surface location in relation to the stencil numbers shall 
be made for each rejectable indicator found during each 
inspection. 
1039 