ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-105/SA-105M 
11. Surface Finish, Appearance, and Corrosion 
Protection 
11.1 The requirements of Specification A961/A961M apply 
to forgings and finished parts. 
12. Repair by Welding 
12.l Repair of defects by the manufacturer is permissible 
for forgings made to dimensional standards such as those of 
ASME or for other parts made for stock; by the manufacturer. 
Prior approval of the purchaser is required to repair-weld 
special forgings made to the purchaser's requirements. 
12.2 Weld repairs shall be made by a process that does not 
produce undesirably high levels of hydrogen in the welded 
areas. 
12.3 All forgings repaired by welding shall be post-weld 
heat treated between 1100 °F [593 °C] and the lower transfor­
mation temperature for a minimum of ½ h/in. [½ h/25.4 mm] 
of maximum section thickness, or alternatively annealed, 
normalized and tempered, or quenched and tempered. If the 
forging was not previously heat treated, the original tempering 
temperature was exceeded, or the forging was fully heat treated 
in the post weld cycle, then the forging shall be tested in 
accordance with Section 8 on completion of the cycle. 
12.4 The mechanical properties of the procedure­
qualification weldment shall, when tested in accordance with 
Section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
conform with the requirements listed in Table 2 for the thermal 
condition of repair-welded forgings. 
13. Rejection and Rehearing 
13.1 Each forging that develops mJunous defects during 
shop working or application shall be rejected and the manu­
facturer notified. 
14. Certification 
14.1 Identification Marking-For forgings made to specified 
dimensions, when agreed upon by the purchaser, and for 
forgings made to dimensional standards, application of identi­
fication marks as required in Specification A961/A961M shall 
be the certification that the forgings have been furnished in 
accordance with the requirements of this specification. 
14.2 Test Reports-The manufacturer shall also provide the 
following, where applicable: 
14.2.1 Type heat treatment, Section 6, 
14.2.2 Tensile property results, Section 8 (Table 2), report 
the yield strength and tensile strength, in ksi [MPa], elongation 
and reduction in area, in percent; and, if longitudinal strip 
tension specimens are used, report the width of the gauge 
length, 
14.2.3 Chemical analysis results, Section 7 (Table 1), re­
ported results shall be to the same number of significant figures 
as the limits specified in Table 1 for that element. 
14.2.4 Hardness results, Section 8 (Table 2), a minimum of 
two readings, and 
14.2.5 Any supplementary testing required by the purchase 
order. 
15. Product Marking 
15.1 In addition to marking requirements of Specification 
A961/A961M, the following additional marking requirements 
shall apply: 
15.1.1 If the forgings have been quenched and tempered, the 
letters "QT" shall be stamped on the forgings following this 
specification number. 
15.1.2 Forgings repaired by welding shall be marked with 
the letter "W" following this specification number. 
15.1.3 Plugs and bushings furnished to ASME B16.11 
requirements are not required to be marked. Other parts 
ordered with no marking are by agreement between the 
purchaser and manufacturer. 
15.1.4 When agreed upon between the purchaser and manu­
facturer and specified in the order, the markings shall be 
painted or stenciled on the fitting or stamped on a metal or 
plastic tag which shall be securely attached to the fitting. 
15.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 
Specification A961/A961M, bar coding is acceptable as a 
supplemental identification method. The purchaser may 
specify in the order a specific bar coding system to be used. 
The bar coding system, if applied at the discretion of the 
supplier, should be consistent with one of the published 
industry standards for bar coding. If used on small parts, the 
bar code may be applied to the box or a substantially applied 
tag. 
167 
16. Keywords 
16.1 pipe fittings, steel; piping applications; pressure con­
taining parts; steel flanges; steel forgings, carbon; steel valves; 
temperature service applications, elevated; temperature service 
applications, high 