SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Test Methods and Definitions for 
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products 
1. Scope 
1. 1 These test methods cover procedures and definitions 
for the mechanical testing of steels, stainless steels, and related 
alloys. The various mechanical tests herein described are used 
to determine properties required in the product specifications. 
Variations in testing methods are to be avoided, and standard 
methods of testing are to be followed to obtain reproducible 
and comparable results. In those cases in which the testing 
requirements for certain products are unique or at variance with 
these general procedures, the product specification testing 
requirements shall control. 
1.2 The following mechanical tests are described: 
Tension 
Bend 
Hardness 
Brinell 
Rockwell 
Portable 
Impact 
Keywords 
Sections 
7 to 14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 to 30 
32 
1.3 Annexes covering details peculiar to certain products 
are appended to these test methods as follows: 
Bar Products 
Tubular Products 
Fasteners 
Round Wire Products 
Significance of Notched-Bar Impact Testing 
Converting Percentage Elongation of Round Specimens to 
Equivalents for Flat Specimens 
Annex 
Annex A1 
Annex A2 
Annex A3 
Annex A4 
Annex AS 
AnnexA6 
Testing Multi-Wire Strand 
Rounding of Test Data 
Methods for Testing Steel Reinforcing Bars 
Procedure for Use and Control of Heat-cycle Simulation 
AnnexA7 
Annex AB 
AnnexA9 
Annex A10 
1.4 The values stated in inch-pound units are to be regarded 
as standard. The values given in parentheses are mathematical 
conversions to SI units that are provided for information only 
and are not considered standard. 
1.5 When these test methods are referenced in a metric 
product specification, the yield and tensile values may be 
determined in inch-pound (ksi) units then converted into SI 
(MPa) units. The elongation determined in inch-pound gauge 
lengths of 2 or 8 in. may be reported in SI unit gauge lengths 
of 50 or 200 mm, respectively, as applicable. Conversely, when 
these test methods are referenced in an inch-pound product 
specification, the yield and tensile values may be detennined in 
SI units then converted into inch-pound units. The elongation 
determined in SI unit gauge lengths of 50 or 200 mm may be 
reported in inch-pound gauge lengths of 2 or 8 in., respectively, 
as applicable. 
584 
1.5.1 The specimen used to detennine the original units 
must conform to the applicable tolerances of the original unit 
system given in the dimension table not that of the converted 
tolerance dimensions. 
Norn I-This is due to the specimen SI dimensions and tolerances 
being hard conversions when this is not a dual standard. The user is 
directed to Test Methods A1058 if the tests are required in SI units. 
1.6 Attention is directed to ISO/IEC 17025 when there may 
be a need for information on criteria for evaluation of testing 
laborat01ies. 
1. 7 This standard does not purport to address all of the 
safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 