SA-562/SA-562M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Carbon Steel, Manganese-Titanium 
for Glass or Diffused Metallic Coatings 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers titanium-bearing carbon steel 
plates intended for welded glass lined pressure vessels or other 
applications where the presence of free-iron carbide would be 
deleterious to the coating. A minimum specific ratio of titanium 
to carbon is specified. 
1.2 The maximum thickness of plates is limited to 2 in. [50 
mm]. 
1.3 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
3. General Requirements and Ordering htformation 
3 .1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this specifica­
tion, certain supplementary requirements are available when 
additional control, testing, or examination is required to meet 
end use requirements. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require-
ments of this specification shall prevail. • 
4. Manufacture 
4.1 Steelmaking Practice-The steel shall be killed. 
5. Heat Treatment 
5.1 Plates shall be thermally treated to produce grain refine­
ment, either by normalizing or heating uniformly for hot 
forming at a minimum temperature of 1600°F [870°C] or some 
higher agreed temperature, and held at this temperature for a 
minimum of 1 h/in. [2.4 min/mm) of thickness. 
6. Chemical Requirements 
6.1 The steel shall conform to the chemical requirements 
shown in Table 1 unless otherwise modified in accordance with 
Supplementary Requirement S 17, Vacuum Carbon-Deoxidized 
Steel, in Specification A20/ A20M. 
7. Mechanical Requirements 
~-------------------------~~1~.l':;!-Te:n:s~io~n~1i~e~s~t ~R~eq:u:i:rem.ents-l'h~erial-as-representedi--------------t-­
by the tension-test specimens shall conform to the require-
ments shown in Table 2. 
950 