r..------.., 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-788/SA-788M 
Jfacto,= (Mn+Si) (P+Sn) X 104 
Has been found to be effective in reducing temper embrittle­
ment effects. 
S24.2 The purchaser shall specify the required maximum 
value of Jfactor in both the inquiry and ordering documents. 
S24.3 The determination of the tin content of the steel is 
necessary for the application of this supplementary require­
ment even if there is no chemical analysis requirement for tin 
in the product specification. 
Note-In Dr. Paul Bates's paper,1 it was noted that the 
Fracture Appearance Transition Temperature (PATT) fell 
steadily from Jfactor 120 to 60, but below 20, the drop in PATT 
was much less apparent. 
S25. Positive Material Identification 
S25.1 Forgings shall receive positive material identification 
to ensure that forgings are of the ordered material grade prior 
to shipment. 
S25.2 Forgings shall receive a positive material identifica­
tion in accordance with Guide B1916. 
S25.3 The entire ordered quantity of forgings shall be 
examined. 
S25.4 Forgings not conforming to the ordered grade shall be 
rejected. 
1 Bates, P., "The Production of Safety Critical Forgings for Pressure Vessel 
Applications," International Forgemasters Conference, Wiesbaden, Germany, Sep­
tember 2000. 
S25.5 Following this material identification examination, 
acceptable forgings shall be marked as agreed between the 
purchaser and producer. 
S26. Pressure Equipment Directive-Mechanical Testing 
S26.1 Charpy impact testing shall be done at the lowest 
scheduled operating temperature, but not higher than 68°F 
[20oC]. 
S26.2 The frequency of Charpy impact testing shall be the 
same as that specified in the product specification for the 
tension test, with one Charpy test (3 specimens) for each 
required tension test. 
S26.3 The minimum individual absorbed energy for the 
Charpy impact test shall be 20 ft·lbf [27 J]. 
S26.4 The minimum elongation in the tension test shall be 
measured on a gauge length of five times the diameter of the 
test specimen (5D), and shall be not less than 14 %. • 
S26.5 The results of the impact and tension tests shall be 
included in the product certification. 
S27. Heat Analysis for Remelted Ingots 
S27.1 Instead of the heat analysis provisions in 8.1.6.2 of 
Specification A788/A788M for consumable electrode remelt­
ing processes, a heat analysis shall be obtained from each 
remelted ingot (or the product from it) from single master or 
parent heat. 
S27.2 The product analysis provisions of Specification 
A788/A788M shall not apply. 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. RECIRCULATION FACTOR 
Al. 1 The recirculation factor for the vacuum lift process is 
obtained as follows: 
Tons {kg) of Steel Lifted per Cycle X Number of Cycles 
Heat Weight in Tons [kg] 
A2. EXPLANATORY NOTE FOR WEIGHTED AVERAGE ANALYSIS 
A2.l A weighted average analysis is mandatory whenever 
an ingot is poured from the combination of two or more heats 
wherein the resultant chemistry of the ingot assumes an 
identity attributable to each heat involved in the combination. 
It is necessary to make this determination to ensure that each 
element in the official chemistry is represented by proportion to 
its amount in each individual furnace heat. An example of the 
determination of a weighted average analysis for an ingot made 
from a three-heat combination pour with varying weights and 
chemistry involved in each heat is shown below: 
1283 