'-.__.,,. 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-53/SA-53M 
15. Test Methods 
15.1 The test specimens and the tests required by this 
specification shall conform to those described in the latest issue 
of Test Methods and Definitions A370. 
15.2 Each longitudinal tension test specimen shall be taken 
from a pipe end and shall not be flattened between the gage 
marks. 
15.3 Test specimens for bend tests and flattening tests shall 
be taken from pipe. Test specimens for flattening tests shall be 
smooth on the ends and free from burrs. 
15.4 Tests shall be conducted at room temperature. 
16. Lengths 
16.1 Unless otherwise specified, pipe lengths shall be in 
accordance with the following regular practices: 
16.1.1 Except as allowed by 16.1.2 and 16.1.4, pipe lighter 
than extra-strong weight shall be in single-random lengths of 
16 to 22 ft [4.88 to 6.71 m], with not more than 5 % of the total 
number of threaded lengths furnished being jointers (two 
pieces coupled together). 
16.1.2 For plain-end pipe lighter than extra-strong weight, it 
shall be permissible for not more than 5 % of the total number 
of pipe to be in lengths of 12 to 16 ft [3.66 to 4.88 m]. 
16.1.3 Pipe of extra-strong weight or heavier shall be in 
random lengths of 12 to 22 ft [3.66 to 6.71 m], except that it 
shall be permissible for not more than 5 % of the total of pipe 
to be in lengths of 6 to 12 ft [1.83 to 3.66 m]. 
16.1.4 For extra-strong weight or lighter pipe ordered in 
double-random lengths, the minimum lengths shall be not less 
than 22 ft [6.71 m] and the minimum average length for the 
order shall be not less than 35 ft [10.67 m]. 
16.1.5 For pipe heavier than extra-strong weight ordered in 
lengths longer than single random, the lengths shall be as 
agreed upon between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
16.1.6 If pipe is furnished threaded and coupled, the length 
shall be measured to the outer face of the coupling. 
17. Galvanized Pipe 
17 .1 Galvanized pipe ordered under this specification shall 
be coated with zinc inside and outside by the hot-dip process. 
The zinc used for the coating shall be any grade of zinc 
conforming to Specification B6. The galvanized pipe shall be 
free from uncoated areas, blisters, flux deposits, and gross 
dross inclusions. Lumps, projections, globules, or heavy de­
posits of zinc which will interfere with the intended use of the 
material will not be permitted. 
17.2 Weight (Mass) per Unit Area of Coating-The weight 
(mass) per unit area of zinc coating shall be not less than 1.8 
oz/ft 2 [0.55 kg/m 2 ] as determined from the average results of 
the two specimens taken for test in the manner prescribed in 
17.5 and not less than 1.6 oz/ft2 [0.49 kg/m 2 ] for each of these 
specimens. The weight (mass) per unit area of coating, ex­
pressed in ounces per square foot [kilograms per square metre] 
shall be calculated by dividing the total weight (mass) of zinc, 
inside plus outside, by the total area, inside plus oµtside, of the 
surface coated. Each specimen shall have not less than 1.3 
oz/ft2 [0.40 kg/m 2 ] of zinc coating on each surface, calculated 
by dividing the total weight (mass) of zinc on the given surface 
( outside or inside) by the area of the surface coated ( outside or 
inside). 
17.3 Weight (Mass) per Unit Area of Coating Test-The 
weight (mass) per unit area of zinc coating shall be determined 
by stripping tests in accordance with Test Method A90/ A90M. 
17.4 Test Specimens-Test specimens for determination of 
weight (mass) per unit area of coating shall be cut approxi­
mately 4 in. [100 mm] in length. 
17.5 Number of Tests-Two test specimens for the determi­
nation of weight (mass) per unit area of coating shall be taken, 
one from each end of one length of galvanized pipe selected at 
random from each lot of 500 lengths, or fraction thereof, of 
each size. 
17.6 Retests-If the weight (mass) per unit area of coating 
of any lot does not conform to the requirements specified in 
17 .2, retests of two additional pipes from the same lot shall be 
made, each of which shall conform to the specified require­
ments. 
17. 7 If pipe ordered under this specification is to be 
galvanized, the tension, flattening, and bend tests shall be made 
on the base material before galvanizing, if practicable. If 
specified, results of the mechanical tests on the base material 
shall be reported to the purchaser. If it is impracticable to make 
the mechanical tests on the base material before galvanizing, it 
shall be permissible to make such tests on galvanized samples, 
and any flaking or cracking of the zinc coating shall not be 
considered cause for rejection. If galvanized pipe is bent or 
otherwise fabricated to a degree that causes the zinc coating to 
stretch or compress beyond the limit of elasticity, some flaking 
of the coating is acceptable. 
18. Inspection 
18.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry, at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the pipe ordered. The manu­
facturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities to be 
satisfied that the pipe is being furnished in accordance with this 
specification. All tests ( except product analysis) and inspection 
shall be made at the place of manufacture prior to shipment, 
unless otherwise specified, and shall be so conducted as not to 
interfere unnecessarily with the operation of the works. 
19. Rejection 
19.1 The purchaser is permitted to inspect each length of 
pipe received from the manufacturer and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of this specification based upon the inspection 
and test method as outlined in the specification, the length shall 
be rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition 
of rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
19.2 Pipe found in fabrication or in installation to be 
unsuitable for the intended use, under the scope and require­
ments of this specification, shall be set aside and the manufac­
turer notified. Such pipe shall be subject to mutual investiga­
tion as to the nature and severity of the deficiency and the 
147 