SA-751 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Test Methods and Practices for 
Chemical Analysis of Steel Products 
INTRODUCTION 
These test methods and practices were prepared to answer the need for a single document that would 
include all aspects of obtaining and reporting the chemical analysis of steel, stainless steel, and related 
alloys. Such subjects as definitions of terms and product (check) analysis variations (tolerances) 
required clarification. Requirements for sampling, meeting specified limits, and treatment of data 
usually were not clearly established in product specifications. 
It is intended that these test methods and. practices will contain all requirements for the 
determination of chemical composition of steel, stainless steel, or related alloys so that product 
specifications will need contain only special modifications and exceptions. 
1. Scope 
1.1 These test methods and practices cover definitions, 
reference methods, practices, and guides relating to the chemi­
cal analysis of steel, stainless steel, and related alloys. They 
include both wet chemical and instrumental techniques. 
1.2 Directions are provided for handling chemical 
requirements, product analyses, residual elements, and refer­
ence standards, and for the treatment and reporting of chemical 
analysis data. 
1.3 These test methods and practices apply only to those 
product standards which include these test methods and 
practices, or parts thereof, as a requirement. 
1.4 In cases of conflict, the product specification require­
ments shall take precedence over the requirements of these test 
methods and practices. 
1.5 Attention is directed to ISO/IEC 17025 when there may 
be a need for information on criteria for evaluation of testing 
laboratories. 
1.6 This standard does not purport to address all of the 
safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
E29 Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to 
Determine Conformance with Specifications 
E50 Practices for Apparatus, Reagents, and Safety Consid­
erations for Chemical Analysis of Metals, Ores, and 
Related Materials 
E60 Practice for Analysis of Metals, Ores, and Related 
Materials by Spectrophotometry 
E322 Test Method for Analysis of Low-Alloy Steels and 
Cast Irons by Wavelength Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence 
Spectrometry (Withdrawn 2021) 
E350 Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Carbon Steel, 
Low-Alloy Steel, Silicon Electrical Steel, Ingot Iron, and 
Wrought Iron 
E352 Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Tool Steels and 
1234 