SA-403 /SA-403M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Wrought Austenitic Stainless Steel Piping Fittings 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers wrought stainless steel fittings 
for pressure piping applications. 
1.2 Several grades of austenitic stainless steel alloys are 
included in this specification Grades are designated with a 
prefix, WP or CR, based on the applicable ASME or MSS 
dimensional and rating standards, respectively. 
1.3 For each of the WP stainless grades, several classes of 
fittings are covered, to indicate whether seamless or welded 
construction was utilized. Class designations are also utilized 
to indicate the nondestructive test method and extent of 
nondestructive examination (NDE). Table 1 is a general 
summary of the fitting classes applicable to all WP grades of 
stainless steel covered by this specification. There are no 
classes for the CR grades. Specific requirements are covered 
elsewhere. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. However, unless the order specifies the 
applicable "M" specification designation (SI units), the mate­
rial shall be furnished to inch-pound units. 
1.5 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-confonnance with the 
standard. 
1.6 This specification does not apply to cast steel fittings. 
Austenitic stainless steel castings are covered in Specifications 
A351/A351M, A743/A743M, and A744/A744M. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard-
674 
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A351/ A351M Specification for Castings, Austenitic, for 
Pressure-Containing Parts 
A743/A743M Specification for Castings, Iron-Chromium, 
Iron-Chromium-Nickel, Corrosion Resistant, for General 
Application 
A744/A744M Specification for Castings, Iron-Chromium­
Nickel, Corrosion Resistant, for Severe Service 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
A960/ A960M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Wrought Steel Piping Fittings 
El12 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
E165/El65M Practice for Liquid Penetrant Testing for Gen­
eral Industry 
2.2 ASME Standards: 
ASME Bl6.9 Factory-Made Wrought Steel Butt-Welding 
Fittings 
ASME B16.ll Forged Steel Fittings, Socket-Welding and 
Threaded 
2.3 MSS Standards: 
MSS SP-25 Standard Marking System for Valves, Fittings, 
Flanges, and Unions 
MSS SP-43 Standard Practice for Light Weight Stainless 
Steel Butt-Welding Fittings 
MSS SP-79 Socket-Welding Reducer Inserts 