SA-480/SA-480M (ASTM A480/A480M} ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
not listed in the product specification, when acknowledged in 
the order acceptance, shall be treated as a specified element, 
with determination of chemical analysis and reporting of that 
analysis. 
6.2.4 The purchaser is permitted to make the requirements 
for any element more stringent; that is, require higher mini­
mums for elements having minimum requirements or ranges 
with minimum requirements, or requiring lower maximums for 
elements having specified maximums, or ranges with maxi­
mums. The purchaser is not permitted to make chemical 
requirements less stringent. 
6.2.5 Analysis limits shall be established for specific 
elements rather than groups of elements, including but not 
limited to all others, rare earths, and balance, unless all 
elements in such a group are similar in technical effect and are 
associated in typical methods of chemical analysis. 
6.3 Except as permitted in 6.3.1, the steel shall not contain 
an unspecified element for the ordered grade to the extent that 
the steel conforms to the requirements of another grade for 
which that element is a specified element having a required 
minimum content. For this requirement, a grade is defined as 
an alloy described individually and identified by its own UNS 
designation in a table of chemical requirements within this 
specification or any specification listed within the scope as 
being covered by the specification. 
6.3.1 Unless otherwise specified to lower maximum limits 
on the purchase order, maximum allowances for unspecified 
elements will be established for Cu, Mo, Ti, and Nb for the 
specified grade if the amount of that element present in the 
material conforms with composition limits for that element in 
another grade. These allowances are Cu, 0.75 %; Mo, 0.75 %; 
Ti, 0.10 %; and Nb, 0.10 %. 
6.3.2 If any allowance in 6.3.1 is used to demonstrate 
non-substitution, then the element involved shall be reported as 
if it were a specified element. 
6.4 The producer is not permitted to certify that material is 
in compliance with an ASTM product specification when the 
purchase order has required that the material contain as a 
minimum or range an element that is neither a specified 
element nor an intentionally added unspecified element for the 
ordered grade in accordance with the definitions of Test 
Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751. 
6.5 The names columbium (Cb) and niobium (Nb) both 
refer to element 41. The name Niobium is preferred, but either 
is acceptable for reporting composition. 
7. Product Analysis 
7.1 The purchaser is permitted to perform a product analysis 
(formerly check analysis) to verify the identity of the finished 
material representing each heat or lot. Such analysis shall be 
made by any of the commonly accepted methods that will 
positively identify the material. 
7.2 The chemical composition determined in accordance 
with 7 .1 shall conform to the limits of the material specification 
within the tolerances of Table Al .1, unless otherwise specified 
in the applicable material specification or the purchase order. 
The allowable variation of a particular element in a single 
sample for product analysis is permitted to be either above or 
below the specified range. However, percentages must exhibit 
the same tendencies in all samples; that is, the several 
determinations of any individual element in a heat shall not 
vary both above and below the specified range. 
8. Material Test Report and Certification 
8 .1 A report of the results of all tests required by the product 
specification shall be supplied to the purchaser. This material 
test report shall reference the product specification designation 
and year date indicating that the material was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with requirements 
of the product specification and has been found to meet those 
requirements. The material test report shall report the melting 
process when the purchase order requires either a specific type 
of melting or requires that the melting process used is to be 
reported. 
8.1.1 The report shall indicate the type of steel. If certifying 
that the material conforms to the requirements for more than 
one type of steel, the manufacturer may indicate each type of 
steel on the report, or may issue a separate report for each type 
of steel. 
8.2 A signature is not required on the report. However, the 
document shall clearly identify the organization submitting the 
report. Not withstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting the document is responsible for its 
content. 
8.3 A material test report, certificate of inspection, or similar 
document printed from or used in electronic form from an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be re­
garded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifiers' facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document must meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and the supplier. Notwithstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission is responsible for the content of the report. 
788 
8.4 When finished material is supplied to a purchase order 
specifying the product specification, the organization supply­
ing that material shall provide the purchaser with a copy of the 
original manufacturer's test report. 
Norn 1-Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the organization 
submitting the report is responsible for the content of the report. 
Norn 2-The industry definition of EDI invoked herein is the 
computer-to-computer exchange of business information in a standard 
format such as ANSI ASC X12. 
8.4.1 When the original manufacturer's test report was 
provided by EDI to the organization supplying the finished 
material to the purchaser, the organization supplying the 
finished material shall provide to the purchaser a printed form 
of the original test report or shall retransmit the test report by 
EDI to the purchaser. In either case, the test report shall be 
complete with the full identification of the original manufac­
turer and with all data provided on the test report of the original 
manufacturer. 