SA-105 /SA-105M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Carbon Steel Forgings for Piping Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers forged carbon steel piping 
components for ambient- and higher-temperature service in 
pressure systems. Included are flanges, fittings, valves, and 
similar parts ordered either to dimensions specified by the 
purchaser or to dimensional standards such as the MSS, 
ASME, and API specifications referenced in Section 2. Forg­
ings made to this specification are limited to a maximum 
weight of 10 000 lb [ 4540 kg]. Larger forgings may be ordered 
to Specification A266/A266M. Tubesheets and hollow cylin­
drical forgings for pressure vessel shells are not included 
within the scope of this specification. Although this specifica­
tion covers some piping components machined from rolled bar 
and seamless tubular products (see 5.2), it does not cover raw 
material produced in these product forms. 
1.2 Supplementary requirements are provided for use when 
additional testing or inspection is desired. These shall apply 
only when specified individually by the purchaser in the order. 
1.3 Specification A266/ A266M covers other steel forgings 
and Specifications A675/A675M and A696 cover other steel 
bars. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and SI units. However, unless the order specifies the applicable 
"M" specification designation (SI units), the material shall be 
furnished to inch-pound units. The values stated in either SI 
units or inch-pound units are to be regarded separately as 
standard. Within the text, the SI units are shown in brackets. 
The values stated in each system may not be exact equivalents; 
therefore, each system shall be used independently of the other. 
Combining values from the two systems may result in non­
conformance with the standard. 
Norn 1-Toe dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 In addition to those reference documents listed in 
Specification A961/A961M, the following list of standards 
apply to this specification: 
2.2 ASTM Standards: 
A266/ A266M Specification for Carbon Steel Forgings for 
Pressure Vessel Components 
A675/A675M Specification for Steel Bars, Carbon, Hot­
Wrought, Special Quality, Mechanical Properties 
164 
A696 Specification for Steel Bars, Carbon, Hot-Wrought or 
Cold-Finished, Special Quality, for Pressure Piping Com­
ponents 
A788/A788M Specification for Steel Forgings, General Re-
quirements • 
A961/A961M Specification for. Common Requirements for 
Steel Flanges, Forged Fittings, Valves, and Parts for 
Piping Applications 
2.3 MSS Standards: 
SP 44 Standard for Steel Pipe Line Flanges 