SA-193/SA·193M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
6.1.2 Use of water quenching is prohibited for any ferritic 
grade when heat treatment is performed after heading or 
threading. 
6.1.3 Except as permitted below for B6X; bolting material 
that is subsequently cold drawn for dimensional control shall 
be stress-relieved after cold drawing. The minimum stress­
relief temperature shall be within not more than 100 °F [55 °C] 
below the tempering temperature. Tests for mechanical prop­
erties shall be performed after stress relieving. 
6.1.4 B6 and B6X shall be held at the tempering tempera­
ture for a minimum time of 1 h. B6X bolting material may be 
furnished in the as-rolled-and-tempered condition. Cold works 
ing after heat treatment is permitted for B6X material provided 
the final hardness meets the requirements of Tables 2 and· 3. 
6.1.5 B7 and B7M shall be heat treated by quenching in a 
liquid medium and tempering. For B7M bolting components, 
such as bolts, studs, or screws, the final heat treatment, which 
may be the tempering operation if conducted at 1150 °F [620 
0 C] minimum, shall be done after all machining and forming 
operations, including thread rolling and any type of cutting. 
Surface preparation for hardness testing, nondestructive 
evaluation, or ultrasonic bolt tensioning is permitted. 
6.1.5.1 Unless otherwise specified, bolting material for 
Grade B7 may be heat treated by the Furnace, the Induction or 
the Electrical Resistance method. 
Norn 4--Stress-relaxation properties may vary from heat lot to heat lot 
or these properties may vary from one heat-treating method to another. 
The purchaser may specify Supplementary Requirement S8, when stress­
relaxation testing is desired. 
6.1.6 Bolting material Grade B16 shall be heated to a 
temperature range from 1700 to 1750 °F [925 to 955 °C] and 
oil quenched. The minimum tempering temperature shall be as 
specified in Tables 2 and 3. 
6.2 Austenitic Stainless Steels: 
6.2.1 All austenitic stainless steels shall receive a carbide 
solution treatment (see 6.2.2 - 6.2.5 for specific requirements 
for each class). Classes 1, lB, IC (Grades B8R and B8S only), 
2, 2B, and 2C can apply to bar, wire, and finished bolting 
components. Class lA (all grades) and Class IC (grades B8RA 
and B8SA only) can apply to finished bolting components. 
Class ID applies only to bar and wire and finished bolting 
components that are machined directly from Class ID bar or 
wire without any subsequent hot or cold working. 
6.2.2 Classes I and JB, and Class JC Grades B8R and 
BBS-After rolling of the bar, forging, or heading, whether 
done hot or cold, bolting material shall be heated from ambient 
temperature and held a sufficient time at a temperature at which 
the chromium carbide will go into solution and then shall be 
cooled at a rate sufficient to prevent the precipitation of the 
carbide. 
6.2.3 Class JD-Rolled or forged Grades B8, B8M, B8P, 
B8LN, B8MLN, B8CLNCuB, B8N, B8MN, B8R, and B8S bar 
shall be cooled rapidly immediately following hot working 
while the temperature is above 1750 °F [955 °C] so that grain 
boundary carbides remain in solution. Class ID shall be 
restricted to applications at temperatures less than 850 °F [455 
oq, 
6.2.4 Class IA and Class IC Grades B8RA and BBSA­
Finished bolting components shall be carbide solution treated 
after all rolling, forging, heading, and threading operations are 
complete. This designation does not apply to starting material 
such as bar. Components shall be heated from ambient tem­
perature and held a sufficient time at a temperature at which the 
chromium carbide will go into solution and then shall be 
cooled at a rate sufficient to prevent the precipitation of the 
carbide. 
6.2.5 Classes 2, 2B, and 2C-Bolting material shall be 
carbide solution treated by heating from ambient temperature 
and holding a sufficient time at a temperature at which the 
chromium carbide will go into solution and then cooling at a 
rate sufficient to prevent the precipitation of the carbide. 
Following this treatment the bolting material shall then be 
strain hardened to achieve the required properties. 
Norn 5-Heat treatment follqwing operations performed on a limited 
portion of the product, such as heading, may result in non-uniform grain 
size and mechanical properties through the section affected. 
242 
6.2.6 If a scale-free bright finish is required; this shall be 
specified in the purchase order. 
7. Chemical Composition 
7 .1 Each alloy shall conform to the chemical composition 
requirements prescribed in Table 1. 
8. Heat Analysis 
8.1 An analysis of each heat of steel shall be made by the 
manufacturer to determine the percentages of the elements 
specified in Section 7. The chemical composition thus deter­
mined shall be reported to the purchaser or the purchaser's 
representative, and shall conform to the requirements specified 
in Section 7. Should the purchaser deem it necessary· to have 
the transition zone of two heats sequentially cast discarded, the 
purchaser shall invoke Supplementary Requirement S3 of 
Specification A 788/ A 788M. 
9. Mechanical Properties 
9.1 Tensile Properties: 
9.1.1 Requirements-Bolting material as represented by the 
tension specimens shall conform to the requirements pre­
scribed in Tables 2 and 3 at room temperature after heat 
treatment. Stainless strain hardened bolting components (Class 
2, 2B, and 2C) shall be tested full size after strain hardening to 
determine tensile strength and yield strength and shall conform 
to the requirements prescribed in Tables 2 and 3. In cases 
where tensile testing equipment of sufficient capacity is not 
available, stainless strain hardened bolting components greater 
than 1.500 in. diameter may be tested using machined speci­
men. Should the results of full size tests conflict with results of 
tension specimen tests, full size test results shall prevail. 
9.1.2 Full Size Bolting Components, Wedge Tensile 
Testing-When applicable, see 12.1.3, headed components 
shall be wedge tested full size. The minimum full size load 
applied (lbf or kN) for individual sizes shall be as follows: 
W=T,XA, ( 1) 