SA-749/SA-749M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SPECIFICATION FOR STEEL, STRIP, CARBON 
AND HIGH-STRENGTH, LOW-ALLOY, HOT-ROLLED, 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR 
SA-749/SA-749M 0 
INTERNATIONAL 
Standards Worldwide 
[Identical with AS1M Specification A 749/A 749M-97(2002).] 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers the general requirements 
for hot-rolled steel strip in coils and cut lengths. It applies 
to carbon steel and high-strength, low-alloy steel furnished 
as hot-rolled. 
1.2 This specification is not applicable to hot-rolled 
heavy-thickness carbon sheet and strip coils (ASTM Speci­
fication A 635 / A 635M), cold-rolled carbon steel strip 
(ASTM Specification A 109 or A 109M), high-strength, 
low-alloy coldrolled steel (ASTM Specifications A 606 and 
A 607) or cold-rolled carbon spring steel (ASTM Specifi­
cation A 682 or A 682M). 
1.3 In case of any conflict in requirements, the require­
ments of the individual material specification shall prevail 
over those of this general specification. 
1.4 For the purposes of determining conformance with 
this and the appropriate product specification referenced 
under 2.1, values shall be rounded to the nearest unit in 
the right hand place of figures used in expressing the lim­
iting values in accordance with the rounding method of 
Practice E 29. 
1.5 Annex Al lists permissible variations in dimensions 
and mass (Note 1) in S.I. [metric] units. The values listed 
are not exact conversions of the values listed in the inch­
pound tables, but instead are rounded or rationalized val­
ues. Conformance to Annex Al is mandatory when the 
"M" specification is used. 
NOTE 1 - The tenn "weight" is used when inch-pound units are the 
standard; however, under S.I., the preferred tennis "mass." 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI 
units are to be regarded as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
must be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in nonconformance with 
the specification. 
1.7 This specification and the applicable material speci­
fications are expressed in both inch-pound units and SI 
units. However, unless the order specifies the applicable 
"M" specification designation (SI units), the material shall 
be furnished to inch-pound units. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A 109 Specification for Steel, Strip, Carbon, Cold-Rolled 
A 109M Specification for Steel, Strip, Carbon, Cold-Rolled 
(Metric) 
A 370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Test­
ing of Steel Products 
A 606 Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, High­
Strength, Low-Alloy, Hot-Rolled and Cold-Rolled, with 
Improved Atmospheric Corrosion Resistance 
A 607 Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, High­
Strength, Low-Alloy, Columbium or Vanadium, or 
Both, Hot-Rolled and Cold-Rolled 
A 635/A 635M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Heavy-Thickness Coils, Carbon, Hot-Rolled 
A 682 Specification for Steel, Strip, High-Carbon, Cold­
Rolled, Spring Quality, General Requirements For 
A 682M Specification for Steel, Strip, High-Carbon, Cold­
Rolled, Spring Quality, General Requirements For 
(Metric) 
A 700 Practices for Packaging, Marking, and Loading 
Methods for Steel Products for Domestic Shipment 
A 751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for 
Chemical Analysis of Steel Products 
E 11 Specification for Wire-Cloth Sieves for Testing Pur­
poses 
E 29 Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to 
Determine Conformance with Specifications 
1222 