ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-179/SA-179M 
9. Product Analysis 
9.1 When requested on the purchase order, a product analy­
sis shall be made by the supplier from 1 tube per 250 pieces or 
when tubes are identified by heat, one tube per heat shall be 
analyzed. The chemical composition thus determined shall 
conform to the requirements specified. 
9.2 If the original test for product analysis fails, retests of 
two additional billets or tubes shall be made. Both retests, for 
the elements in question, shall meet the requirements of the 
specification; otherwise all remaining material in the heat or lot 
(Note 2) shall be rejected or, at the option of the producer, each 
billet or tube may be individually tested for acceptance. Billets 
or tubes which do not meet the requirements of the specifica­
tion shall be rejected. 
NOTE 2-A lot consists of 250 tubes. 
10. Hardness Requirements 
10.1 The tubes shall have a hardness number not exceeding 
72 HRBW. 
11. Mechanical Tests Required 
11.1 Flattening Test-One flattening test shall be made on 
specimens from each of two tubes from each lot (Note 2) or 
fraction thereof. 
11.2 Flaring Test-One flaring test shall be made on speci­
mens from each of two tubes from each lot (Note 2) or fraction 
thereof. 
11.3 Flange Test-When specified as a substitute for the 
flaring test, for tubes having a wall thickness (actual mean 
wall) less than 10 % of the outside diameter, one test shall be 
made on specimens from each of two tubes from each lot (Note 
2) or fraction thereof. For tubes other than specified above, the 
flange test shall not be required. 
11.4 Hardness Test-Rockwell hardness tests shall be made 
on specimens from two tubes from each lot. The te~ lot 
applies to all tubes, prior to cutting, of the same nominal 
diameter and wall thickness which are produced from the same 
heat of steel. When final heat treatment is in a batch-type 
furnace, a lot shall include only those tubes of the same size 
and the same heat which are heat treated in the same furnace 
charge. When the final heat treatment is in a continuous 
furnace, a lot shall include all tubes of the same size and heat, 
heat treated in the same furnace at the same temperature, time 
at heat, and furnace speed. 
11.5 Hydrostatic Test-Each tube shall be subjected to the 
hydrostatic test, or, instead of this test, a nondestructive electric 
test may be used when specified by the purchaser. 
12. Product Marking 
12.1 In addition to the marking prescribed in Specification 
A450/ A450M, the marking shall include the name and order 
number of the purchaser. 
13. Keywords 
13.1 cold drawn tube; condenser tubes; heat exchanger 
tubes; low carbon steel; seamless tube 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
Norn I-For purposes of design, the following tensile properties may 
be assumed: -
Tensile strength, min, ksi [MPa] 
Yield strength, min, ksi [MPa] 
Elongation in 2 in. or 50 mm, min, % 
47 [325] 
26 [180] 
35 
203 