SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
accurate or appropriate for the purpose. 
A2.2.2 Longitudinal Strip Test Specimens: 
A2.2.2.1 As an alternative to the use of full-size longitudi­
nal test specimens or longitudinal round test specimens, 
longitudinal strip test specimens, obtained from strips cut from 
the tubular product as shown in Fig. A2.2 and machined to the 
dimensions shown in Fig. A2.3 are used. For welded structural 
tubing, such test specimens shall be from a location at least 90° 
from the weld; for other welded tubular products, such test 
specimens shall be from a location approximately 90° from the 
weld. Unless otherwise required by the product specification, 
the gauge length shall conform to dimension C in Fig. A2.3. 
The test specimens shall be tested using grips that are flat or 
have a surface contour corresponding to the curvature of the 
tubular product, or the ends of the test specimens shall be 
flattened without heating prior to the test specimens being 
tested using flat grips. The test specimen shown as specimen 4 
in Fig. 3 shall be used, unless the capacity of the testing 
equipment or the dimensions and nature of the tubular product 
to be tested makes the use of specimen nos. 1, 2, or 3 necessary. 
Norn A2.2-An exact formula for calculating the cross-sectional area 
of specimens of the type shown in Fig. A2.3 taken from a circular tube is 
given in Test Methods ES/ESM. 
A2.2.2.2 The width should be measured at each end of the 
gauge length to determine parallelism and also at the center. 
The thickness should be measured at the center and used with 
the center measurement of the width to determine the cross­
sectional area. The center width dimension should be recorded 
to the nearest 0.005 in. (0.127 mm), and the thickness 
measurement to the nearest 0.001 in. 
A2.2.3 Transverse Strip Test Specimens: 
A2.2.3.1 In general, transverse tension tests are not recom­
mended for tubular products, in sizes smaller than 8 in. in 
nominal diameter. When required, transverse tension test 
specimens may be taken from rings cut from ends of tubes or 
pipe as shown in Fig. A2.4. Flattening of the specimen may be 
done either after separating it from the tube as in Fig. A2.4 (a), 
or before separating it as in Fig. A2.4 (b), and may be done hot 
or cold; but if the flattening is done cold, the specimen may 
subsequently be normalized. Specimens from tubes or pipe for 
which heat treatment is specified, after being flattened either 
hot or cold, shall be given the same treatment as the tubes or 
Norn 1-The edges of the blank for the specimen shall be cut parallel 
to each other. 
FIG. A2.2 Location of Longitudinal Tension-Test Specimens in 
Rings Cut From Tubular Products 
pipe. For tubes or pipe having a wall thickness of less than ¾ 
in. (19 mm), the transverse test specimen shall be of the form 
and dimensions shown in Fig. A2.5 and either or both smfaces 
may be machined to secure uniform thickness. Specimens for 
transverse tension tests on welded steel tubes or pipe to 
determine strength of welds, shall be located perpendicular to 
the welded seams with the weld at about the middle of their 
length. 
A2.2.3.2 The width should be measured at each end of the 
gauge length to determine parallelism and also at the center. 
The thickness should be measured at the center and used with 
the center measurement of the width to determine the cross­
sectional area. The center width dimension should be recorded 
to the nearest 0.005 in. (0.127 mm), and the thickness 
measurement to the nearest 0.001 in. (0.025 mm). 
A2.2.4 Round Test Specimens: 
A2.2.4.1 When provided for in the product specification, the 
round test specimen shown in Fig. 4 may be used. 
A2.2.4.2 The diameter of the round test specimen is mea­
sured at the center of the specimen to the nearest 0.001 in. 
(0.025 mm). 
A2.2.4.3 Small-size specimens proportional to standard, as 
shown in Fig. 4, may be used when it is necessary to test 
material from which the standard specimen cannot be prepared. 
Other sizes of small-size specimens may be used. In any such 
small-size specimen, it is important that the gauge length for 
measurement of elongation be four times the diameter of the 
specimen (see Note 5, Fig. 4). The elongation requirements for 
the round specimen 2-in. gauge length in the product specifi­
cation shall apply to the small-size specimens. 
A2.2.4.4 For transverse specimens, the section from which 
the specimen is taken shall not be flattened or otherwise 
deformed. 
612 
A2.2.4.5 Longitudinal test specimens are obtained from 
strips cut from the tubular product as shown in Fig. A2.2. 
A2.3 Determination of Transverse Yield Strength, Hydrau­
lic Ring-expansion Method 
A2.3.l Hardness tests are made on the outside surface, 
inside surface, or wall cross-section depending upon product­
specification limitation. Surface preparation may be necessary 
to obtain accurate hardness values. 
A2.3.2 A testing machine and method for determining the 
transverse yield strength from an annular ring specimen, have 
been developed and described in A2.3.3 - 9.1.2. 
A2.3.3 A diagrammatic vertical cross-sectional sketch of 
the testing machine is shown in Fig. A2.6. 
A2.3.4 In determining the transverse yield strength on this 
machine, a sh01t ring (commonly 3 in. (76 mm) in length) test 
specimen is used. After the large circular nut is removed from 
the machine, the wall thickness of the ring specimen is 
determined and the specimen is telescoped over the oil resistant 
rubber gasket. The nut is then replaced, but is not turned down 
tight against the specimen. A slight clearance is left between 
the nut and specimen for the purpose of permitting free radial 
movement of the specimen as it is being tested. Oil under 
pressure is then admitted to the interior of the rubber gasket 