SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Coil." Both test results shall be reported for each qualifying 
coil, and the location within the coil for each test shall be 
stated. 
14.4 For structural products produced from coil, both the 
manufacturer and the processor shall be identified on the test 
report. 
14.5 When full-section test specimens have been used for 
the qualification of angles, that information shall be stated on 
the test report. 
14.6 A signature is not required on the test report; however, 
the document shall clearly identify the organization submitting 
the report. Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting the report is responsible for the content 
of the report. 
14.7 For structural products finished by other than the 
original manufacturer, the supplier of the structural product 
shall also provide the purchaser with a copy of the original 
manufacturer's test report. 
14.8 A test report, certificate of inspection, or similar 
document printed from or used in electronic form from an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be re­
garded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall meet the requirements of the applicable product 
specification and shall conform to any existing EDI agreement 
between the purchaser and the supplier. Notwithstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission shall be responsible for the content of the repmt. 
NoTE 9-The industry definition as invoked here is: EDI is the 
computer to computer exchange of business information in a standard 
format such as ANSI ASC Xl2. 
15. Inspection and Testing 
15.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
free entry, at all times, while work on the contract of the 
purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's 
works that concern the manufacture of the structural product 
ordered. The manufacturer shall afford the inspector all rea­
sonable facilities to be satisfied that the structural product is 
being furnished in accordance with this general requirements 
specification, the applicable product specification, and the 
purchase order. All tests (except product analysis) and inspec­
tion shall be made at the place of manufacture prior to 
shipment, unless otherwise specified, and shall be conducted so 
as not to interfere with the operation of the manufacturer's 
works. 
15.2 Where structural products are produced from coil, 15.1 
shall apply to the processor instead of the manufacturer, and 
the place of process shall apply instead of the place of 
manufacture. Where structural products are produced from coil 
and the processor is different from the manufacturer, the 
inspector representing the purchaser shall have free entry at all 
times while work on the contract of the purchaser is being 
performed to all parts of the manufacturer's works that concern 
the manufacture of the structural product ordered. 
16 
16. Retreatment 
16.1 If any heat-treated structural product fails to meet the 
mechanical property requirements of the applicable product 
specification, the manufacturer or the processor shall have the 
option of heat treating the structural product again. All me­
chanical property tests shall be repeated and the structural 
product shall be reexamined for surface defects when it is 
resubmitted for inspection. 
17. Rejection 
17 .1 Any rejection based upon product analysis made in 
accordance with the applicable product specification shall be 
reported to the supplier and samples that represent the rejected 
structural product shall be preserved for two weeks from the 
date of notification of such rejection. In case of dissatisfaction 
with the results of the tests, the supplier shall have the option 
of making claim for a rehearing within that time. 
17.2 The purchaser shall have the option of rejecting struc­
tural product that exhibits injurious defects subsequent to its 
acceptance at the manufacturer's or processor's works, and so 
notifying the manufacturer or processor. 
18. Identification of Structural Products 
18.1 Required Plate Markings: 
18.1.1 Except as allowed by 18.1.4.2 and 18.6, plates shall 
be legibly marked with the following: applicable ASTM 
designation (see 1.1) (year-date not required); "G" or "MT" if 
applicable (see 18.1.2); applicable grade; heat number; size and 
thickness; and name, brand, or trademark of the manufacturer 
(for plates produced from an as-rolled structural product) or the 
processor (for plates produced from coil). 
18.1.2 Plates that are required to be heat treated, but have 
not been so heat treated, shall be marked, by the manufacturer 
or processor, with the letter "G" (denoting green) following the 
required ASTM designation mark, except that "G" marking is 
not necessary if such plates are for shipment, for the purpose of 
obtaining the required heat treatment, to an organization under 
the manufacturer's control. Such plates shall have been quali­
fied for shipment on the basis of test specimens that have been 
so heat treated. Plates that are required to be heat treated, and 
have been so heat treated, shall be marked, by the party that 
performed the heat treatment, with the letter "MT" (denoting 
material treated) following the required ASTM designation 
mark. 
18.1.3 Except as allowed by 18.1.4.2 and 18.6, the required 
markings for plates shall be by steel die stamping, paint 
marking, or by means of permanently affixed, colorfast, 
weather-resistant labels or tags. It shall be the responsibility of 
the supplier that all required markings be intact and fully 
legible upon receipt by the purchaser. 
18.1.4 Location of Markings: 
18.1.4.1 The required markings for plates shall be in at least 
one place on each finished plate. 
18.1.4.2 For secured lifts of all sizes of plates 3/s in. [10 mm] 
(or 5 /16 in. [8 mm] for material specified for bridge construction 
end use) or under in thickness, and for secured lifts of all 
thicknesses of plates 36 in. [900 mm] or under in width, the 
manufacturer or processor shall have the option of placing such 