ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
drop of the beam. Note the load at the "drop of the beam" or 
the "halt of the pointer" and record the corresponding stress as 
the yield point. 
14.1.2 Autographic Diagram Method-When a sharp-kneed 
stress-strain diagram is obtained by an autographic recording 
device, take the stress corresponding to the top of the knee 
(Fig. 7), or the stress at which the curve drops as the yield 
point. 
14.1.3 Total Extension Under Load Method-When testing 
material for yield point and the test specimens may not exhibit 
a well-defined disproportionate deformation that characterizes 
a yield point as measured by the drop of the beam, halt of the 
pointer, or antographic diagram methods described in 14.1.1 
and 14.1.2, a value equivalent to the yield point in its practical 
significance may be determined by the following method and 
may be recorded as yield point: Attach a Class C or better 
extensometer (Notes 5 and 6) to the specimen. When the load 
producing a specified extension (Note 7) is reached record the 
stress corresponding to the load as the yield point (Fig. 8). 
Norn 5-Automatic devices are available that determine the load at the 
specified total extension without plotting a stress-strain curve. Such 
devices may be used if their accuracy has been demonstrated. Multiplying 
calipers and other such devices are acceptable for use provided their 
accuracy has been demonstrated as equivalent to a Class C extensometer. 
Norn 6-Reference should be made to Practice E83. 
Norn 7-For steel with a yield point specified not over 80 000 psi 
(550 MPa), an appropriate value is 0.005 in.fin. of gauge length. For 
values above 80 000 psi, this method is not valid unless the limiting total 
extension is increased. 
Norn 8-The shape of the initial portion of an autographically 
determined stress-strain (or a load-elongation) curve may be influenced by 
numerous factors such as the seating of tl1e specimen in the grips, the 
straightening of a specimen bent due to residual stresses, and the rapid 
loading permitted in 8.4.1. Generally, the abem1tions in this portion of the 
curve should be ignored when fitting a modulus line, such as that used to 
determine the extension-under-load yield, to the curve. In practice, for a 
number of reasons, the straight-line portion of the stress-strain curve may 
not go through the origin of the stress-strain diagram. In these cases it is 
not the origin of the stress-strain diagram, but rather where the straight足
line portion of the stress-strain curve, intersects the strain axis that is 
pertinent. All offsets and extensions should be calculated from the 
intersection of the strai.ght-line portion of the stress-strain curve with the 
strain axis, and not necessarily from the origin of the stress-strain diagram. 
See also Test Methods E8/E8M, Note 32. 
14.2 Yield Strength-Yield strength is the stress at which a 
material exhibits a specified limiting deviation from the pro足
portionality of stress to strain. The deviation is expressed in 
terms of strain, percent offset, total extension under load, and 
so forth. Determine yield strength by one of the following 
methods: 
14.2.1 Offset Method-To determine the yield strength by 
the "offset method," it is necessary to secure data (autographic 
or numerical) from which a stress-strain diagram with a distinct 
modulus characteristic of the material being tested may be 
drawn. Then on the stress-strain diagram (Fig. 9) lay off Om 
equal to the specified value of the offset, draw mn parallel to 
OA, and thus locate r, the intersection of mn with the 
stress-strain curve corresponding to load R, which is the 
yield-strength load. In recording values of yield strength 
obtained by this method, the value of offset specified or used, 
or both, shall be stated in parentheses after the term yield 
strength, for example: 
Yield strength ( 0.2 % offset) = 52 000 psi ( 360 MPa) ( 1) 
When the offset is 0.2 % or larger, the extensometer used 
shall qualify as a Class B2 device over a strain range of 0.05 to 
1.0 %. If a smaller offset is specified, it may be necessary to 
specify a more accurate device (that is, a Class Bl device) or 
reduce the lower limit of the strain range (for example, to 
0.01 %) or both. See also Note 10 for automatic devices. 
Norn 9-For stress-strain diagrams not containing a distinct modulus, 
such as for some cold-worked materials, it is recommended that the 
extension under load method be utilized. If the offset method is used for 
materials without a distinct modulus, a modulus value appropriate for the 
material being tested should be used: 30 000 000 psi (207 000 MPa) for 
carbon steel; 29 000 000 psi (200 000 MPa) for ferritic stainless steel; 
28 000 000 psi (193 000 MPa) for austenitic stainless steel. For special 
alloys, the producer should be contacted to discuss appropriate modulus 
values. 
14.2.2 Extension Under Load Method-For tests to deter足
mine the acceptance or rejection of material whose stress-strain 
characteristics are well known from previous tests of similar 
material in which stress-strain diagrams were plotted, the total 
strain corresponding to the stress at which the specified offset 
(see Notes 10 and 11) occurs will be known within satisfactory 
limits. The stress on the specimen, when this total strain is 
reached, is the value of the yield strength. In recording values 
of yield strength obtained by this method, the value of 
"extension" specified or used, or both, shall be stated in 
parentheses after the term yield strength, for example: 
593 
Yield strength (0.5 % EUL) = 52000 psi (360 MPa) (2) 
The total strain can be obtained satisfactorily by use of a 
Class Bl extensometer (Note 5, Note 6, and Note 8). 
Norn 10-Automatic devices are available that determine offset yield 
strength without plotting a stress-strain curve. Such devices may be used 
if their accuracy has been demonstrated. 
Norn 11-The appropriate magnitude of the extension under load will 
obviously vary with the strength range of the particular steel under test. In 
general, the value of extension under load applicable to steel at any 
strength level may be determined from the sum of the proportional strain 
and the plastic strain expected at the specified yield strength. The 
following equation is used: 
Extension under load, in.fin. of gauge length= (YS/ E) + r (3) 
where: 
YS = specified yield strength, psi or MPa, 
E = modulus of elasticity, psi or MPa, and 
r = limiting plastic strain, in.fin. 
14.3 Tensile Strength-Calculate the tensile strength by 
dividing the maximum load the specimen sustains during a 
tension test by the original cross-sectional area of the speci足
men. If the upper yield strength is the maximum stress 
recorded and if the stress-strain curve resembles that of Test 
Methods E8/E8M-15a Fig. 25, the maximum stress after 
discontinuous yielding shall be reported as the tensile strength 
unless otherwise stated by the purchaser. 
14.4 Elongation: 
14.4.1 Fit the ends of the fractured specimen together 
carefully and measure the distance between the gauge marks to 
the nearest 0.01 in. (0.25 mm) for gauge lengths of 2 in. and 
under, and to the nearest 0.5 % of the gauge length for gauge 