SA-99S/SA-99SM ASME BPVC.II.A-202S 
Specification for 
Castings, Austenitic-Ferritic (Duplex) Stainless Steel, for 
Pressure-Containing Parts 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers austenitic-ferritic (duplex) 
stainless steel castings for valves, flanges, fittings, and other 
pressure-containing parts. 
1.2 The duplex stainless steels offer a combination of 
enhanced mechanical properties and corrosion resistance when 
properly balanced in composition and properly heat treated. 
Ferrite levels are not specified, but these grades will develop a 
range of approximately 30 to 60 % ferrite with the balance 
austenite. It is the responsibility of the purchaser to determine 
which grade shall be furnished depending on design and 
service conditions, mechanical properties, and corrosion­
resistant characteristics. 
Nom I-Because of the possibility of precipitation of embrittling 
phases, the grades included in this specification are not recommended for 
service at temperatures above 600 °F [315 °C]. 
1.3 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in nonconformance 
with the standard. 
1.4 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A488/A488M Practice for Steel Castings, Welding, Qualifi­
cations of Procedures and Personnel 
A703/A703MSpecification for Steel Castings, General 
Requirements, for Pressure-Containing Parts 
E125 Reference Photographs for Magnetic Particle Indica­
tions on Ferrous Castings 
E165/E165M Practice for Liquid Penetrant Testing for Gen­
eral Industry 
E562 Test Method for Determining Volume Fraction by 
Systematic Manual Point Count 
G48 Test Methods for Pitting and Crevice Corrosion Resis­
tance of Stainless Steels and Related Alloys by Use of 
Ferric Chloride Solution 
3. Terminology 
3 .1 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.1.1 duplex stainless steel-an iron-chrornium-nickel­
molybdenum alloy that, when properly heat treated, consists of 
approximately 30 to 60 % ferrite with the balance austenite. 
4. General Conditions for Delivery 
4.1 Material furnished to this specification shall conform to 
the applicable requirements of Specification A 703/ A 703M, 
including the supplementary requirements that are indicated on 
the purchaser order. Failure to comply with the general 
requirements of Specification A 703/ A 703M constitutes non­
conformance with this specification. In case of conflict be­
tween the requirements of this specification and Specification 
A 703/ A 703M, this specification shall prevail. 
5. Ordering Information 
5.1 It is the responsibility of the purchaser to specify all 
requirements that are necessary for material ordered under this 
specification. Such requirements may include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
5.1.1 A description of the casting by pattern number or 
drawing ( dimensional tolerances shall be included on the 
casting drawing), 
5.1.2 Quantity (weight and number of castings), 
5.1.3 Specification designation and date of issue, 
5.1.4 Grade of steel, 
5.1.5 Supplementary requirements including acceptance 
criteria, and 
1480 