SA-815/SA-815M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the supplementary requirements described below may be included in the purchaser's 
inquiry or in the order or contract. When so included, a supplementary requirement shall have the 
same force as if it were in the body of the specification. Supplementary requirement details not fully 
described shall be agreed upon between the purchaser and the supplier. 
SI. Product Analysis (Note Sl.l) 
SI. I A product analysis shall be made for each heat of base 
metal and, if of welded construction, from each lot number of 
welding material of the fittings offered for delivery and shall 
conform to the requirements specified in Section 7. 
NoTE S 1.1-If the results of any of the tests specified in Supplementary 
Requirements Sl, S2, or S3 do not conform to requirements, retests may 
be made at the manufacturer's expense on additional fittings or represen­
tative test pieces of double the original number from the same heat or lot 
as defined in Supplementary Requirements S.l, S2, or SJ, each of which 
shall conform to the requirements specified. 
S2. Tension Test (Note SU) 
S2.1 One tension test shall be made on one fitting or 
representative test piece (Note S2.1) per lot (Note S2.2) of 
fittings. If the fittings are of welded construction, the tension 
specimen shall include the weld and be prepared so that the 
weld is at the midlength of the specimen. 
NoTE S2.I-Where the test specimen for the tension or intergranular 
corrosion bend test cannot be taken from a fitting due to size limitations, 
a representative test piece shall be obtained. The test piece shall be from 
the same lot it represents and shall have approximately the same amount 
of working. In addition, these pieces representing fittings manufactured 
from bars, plate, or forgings shall have a cross section equal to the greatest 
cross section of the fitting, and test pieces representing fittings manufac­
tured from tubular products shaI! have a cross section approximately the 
same as that of the finished product. The test piece for fittings of welded 
construction shall be prepared to the same weld procedures and from the 
same heats of materials as the fittings it represents. 
NoTE S2.2-A lot shall consist of all fittings of the same type, size, and 
wall thickness, manufactured from one heat of material (and, if fabrication 
welding is performed using one lot number of electrode or one heat of 
weld wire), and heat treated using the same heat treat cycle in either a 
continuous or batch-type furnace controlled within a range of 50 °F [28 
°CJ and equipped with recording pyrometers so that complete records of 
heat treatment are available. 
S3. Intergranular Corrosion Bend Test (Note S1.1) 
S3.l An intergranular con-osion bend test shall be made on 
one fitting or representative test piece (Note S2.1) per lot (Note 
S2.2) of fittings. If the fittings are of welded constmction, the 
bend specimen shall include the weld and be prepared so that 
the weld is at the midlength location of the specimen. Speci­
mens containing a weld shall be bent so that the location of 
weld is at the point of maximnm bend. The method of testing 
shall be in accordance with Practices A262 or Practices A763, 
as applicable. 
S4. Ultrasonic Test 
S4.1 Each fitting or the raw material from which each fitting 
is made shall be ultrasonically tested to determine its sound­
ness. The method, where applicable, shall be in accordance 
with Practice A388/A388M. Acceptance limits shall be speci­
fied by the purchaser. 
S5. Photomicrographs 
SS.1 Photomicrographs at 100 diameters shall be made for 
infommtion only of the actual base metal structure from one 
fitting as furnished in each lot. The photomicrographs shall be 
identified as to fitting size, wall thickness, lot identification, 
and heat. The definition of "lot" shall be as specified by the 
purchaser. 
S6. Surface Finish 
S6. l Machined surfaces shall have a maximum roughness 
of 250 RMS (root-mean-square) or 6.3 µin. AA (arithmetical 
average). All other surfaces shall be suitable for ultrasonic 
testing. 
S7. Liquid Penetrant Test 
S7.1 All surfaces shall be liquid penetrant tested. The 
method shall be in accordance with Practice E165. 
1338 