SA-553/SA-553M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy Steel, Quenched and 
Tempered 7, 8, and 9 % Nickel 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers 7, 8, and 9 % nickel alloy 
steel plates for use in the water quenched and tempered 
condition intended for the fabrication of welded pressure 
vessels. 
1.2 Material under this specification is available in three 
types having different chemical composition as follows: 
Type Nominal Nickel Content, % 
I 9 
II 8 
Ill 7 
1.3 Plates produced under this specification are subject to 
impact testing at -320°F [-195°C] for Type I or Type III, and 
-275°F [-170°C] for Type II; or at such other temperatures as 
are agreed upon. 
1.4 The maximum thickness of plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the material to meet the specified mechanical 
property requirements; however, current mill practice normally 
limits this material to 2 in. [50 mm] max. 
1.5 This material is susceptible to magnetization. Use of 
magnets in handling after heat treatment should be avoided if 
residual magnetism would be detrimental to subsequent fabri­
cation or service. 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
1.7 This standard does not purport to address_ftll_gfthe _ 
safety conc~rnS: iTany, ciisoeiated with its ~se. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro-
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/ A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is refe1Ted to the 
li-sted,mpple-mentaryrequfremenrs·iuiliissj:,ecincation. and· to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/ A20M. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
940 