SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
DrscussION-This result is accomplished by a proper balance be­
tween section size, hardenability, and severity of quench. 
slack quenching, n-the incomplete hardening of a steel 
object due to quenching from the austenitizing temperature 
at a rate slower than the critical cooling rate for the 
particular steel composition, resulting in the formation of 
one or more transformation products in addition to marten­
site. 
snap temper, n-a precautionary interim stress-relieving treat­
ment applied to a high-hardenability steel immediately after 
quenching to prevent cracking because of delay in temper­
ing it at the prescribed higher temperature. 
soaking, n-prolonged holding at a selected temperature. 
solution heat treatment, n-heating a steel object to a suitable 
temperature, holding it at that temperature long enough to 
cause one or more constituents to enter into solid solution, 
and then cooling it rapidly enough to hold such constituents 
in solution. 
specified element, n-in steel, an element controlled to a 
specified minimum, maximum, or range, in accordance with 
the requirements of the applicable product specification. 
spheroidizing, n-heating and cooling a steel object to pro­
duce a spheroidal or globular form of carbide in its micro­
structure. 
D1scussION-Spheroidizing methods commonly used are the follow­
ing: (1) prolonged holding at a temperature just below Ae 1 ; (2) heating 
and cooling alternately between temperatures that are just above, and 
just below, Ae 1 ; (3) heating to a temperature above Ae 1 or Ae 3 and then 
cooling very slowly in the furnace or holding at a temperature just 
below Ae 1 ; (4) cooling, from the minimum temperature at which all 
carbide is dissolved, at a rate suitable to prevent the reformation of a 
carbide network, and then reheating in accordance with Method (1) or 
(2) above. (Applicable to hypereutectoid steels containing a carbide 
network.) 
spray quenching, n-quenching in a spray of liquid. 
stabilized stainless steel, n-a stainless steel that conforms to 
a specification that prescribes limits (minimum or range) for 
niobium (columbium), tantalum, titanium, or a combination 
thereof. 
D1scussION-Such limits are sometimes expressed as a function of 
the carbon and nitrogen contents. In an appropriately annealed 
condition, a stabilized stainless steel will resist sensitization to 
intergranular corrosion associated with the precipitation of chromium 
carbide at grain boundaries as a result of thermal exposure, such as 
annealing, stress relieving, welding, or high temperature service. 
Resistance to sensitization to intergranular corrosion is dependent upon 
the corrosivity of the environment. The condition of being stabilized 
with respect to sensitization is frequently demonstrated by passing one 
or more standard corrosion tests for sensitization. 
stabilizing treatment, n-any treatment intended to stabilize 
the microstructure or dimensions of a steel object. 
stainless steel, n-a steel that conforms to a specification that 
requires, by mass percent, a minimum chromium content of 
10.5 or more, and a maximum carbon content of less than 
1.20. 
steel, n-a material that conforms to a specification that 
requires, by mass percent, more iron than any other element 
and a maximum carbon content of generally less than 2. 
DIScuss10N-The iron content requirement is not normally stated in 
the specification and is not normally determined by chemical analysis, 
but is taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, this calculated value 
for iron is compared on an individual basis to the mean values 
permitted by the specification for each of the other elements having a 
specified range or a specified maximum. Some chromium-containing 
steels may contain more than 2 % carbon; however, 2 % carbon is 
generally considered to be the demarcation between steel and cast iron. 
strain aging, n-aging induced by cold working. 
strain hardening, n-an increase in hardness and strength of a 
metal caused by plastic deformation at temperatures below 
its recrystallization temperature. (Syn. work hardening) 
stress relieving, n-heating a steel object to a suitable 
temperature, holding it long enough to reduce residual 
stresses, and then cooling it slowly enough to minimize the 
development of new residual stresses. 
subcritical annealing, n-annealing at a temperature slightly 
below Ac 1 . 
surface hardening, n-a generic term covering any of several 
processes that, by quench hardening only, produce in a 
steel object a surface layer that is harder or more wear 
resistant than the core. 
DIScussION-There is no significant alteration of the chemical 
composition of the surface layer. Where applicable, it is preferred that 
the following more specific terms be used: induction hardening, flame 
hardening, and shell hardening. 
temper brittleness, n-brittleness that results when certain 
steels are held within, or are cooled slowly through, a certain 
range of temperature below the transformation range. 
tempering, n-reheating a quench hardened or normalized 
steel object to a temperature below Ac 1 , and then cooling it 
at any desired rate. 
test record, n-a document or electronic record that contains 
the observations and derived data obtained by applying a 
given test method. 
test report, n-a document that presents the applicable quali­
tative or quantitative results obtained by applying one or 
more given test methods. 
DIScussION-A single document, containing test report information 
and certificate of compliance information, may be used. 
Thermal-Mechanical Control Process (TMCP), n-a rolling 
process that produces a fine-grained ferritic steel by a 
particular combination of controls on the manufacturing 
process, from slab reheating to post-rolling cooling, thereby 
achieving enhanced mechanical properties. 
D1scuss10N-(TMCP) requires appropriate selection of chemical 
composition and accurate control of steel temperature and rolling 
reduction. 
thermochemical treatment, n-a heat treatment carried out 
in a medium suitably chosen to produce a change in the 
chemical composition of the steel object by exchange with 
the medium. 
1386 