ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
TABLE A 1.2 Recommended Practice for Selecting Bend Test Specimens for Steel Bar Products 
Norn I-The length of all specimens is to be not less than 6 in. (150 mm). 
Norn 2-The edges of the specimen may be rounded to a radius not exceeding 1/16 in. (1.6 mm). 
Flats 
Thickness, in. (mm) Width, in. (mm) Recommended Size 
Up to¼ (13), incl Up to¾ (19), incl Full section. 
Over¾ (19) Full section or machine to not less than ot less than 
¾ in. (19 mm) in width by thickness of specimen. 
Over¼ (13) All Full section or machine to 1 by ¼ in. (25 by 13 mm) 
specimen from midway between center and surface. 
Rounds, Squares, Hexagons, and Octagons 
Diameter or Distance Between Parallel Faces, in. (mm) 
Up to 1¼ (38), incl 
Over 1¼ (38) 
hardness penetration. 
Recommended Size 
Full section. 
Machine to 1 by ¼-in. {25 by 13 mm) specimen from midway between center 
and surface. 
A2. STEEL TUBULAR PRODUCTS 
A2.1 Scope 
A2.l.1 This annex contains testing requirements for Steel 
Tubular Products that are specific to the product. The require­
ments contained in this annex are supplementary to those found 
in the general section of this specification. In the case of 
conflict between requirements provided in this annex and those 
found in the general section of this specification, the require­
ments of this annex shall prevail. In the case of conflict 
between requirements provided in this annex and requirements 
found in product specifications, the requirements found in the 
product specification shall prevail. 
A2.1.2 Tubular shapes covered by this specification include, 
round, square, rectangular, and special shapes. 
A2.2 Tension Test 
A2.2.1 Full-size Longitudinal Test Specimens: 
A2.2.1.1 As an alternative to the use of longitudinal strip 
test specimens or longitudinal round test specimens, tension 
test specimens of full-size tubular sections are used, provided 
that the testing equipment has sufficient capacity. Snug-fitting 
metal plugs should be inserted far enough in the end of such 
tubular specimens to permit the testing machine jaws to grip 
the specimens properly without crushing. A design that may be 
used for such plugs is shown in Fig. A2.1. The plugs shall not 
extend into that part of the specimen on which the elongation 
is measured (see Fig. A2.l). Care should be exercised to see 
that insofar as practicable, the load in such cases is applied 
axially. The length of the full-section specimen depends on the 
gauge length prescribed for measuring the elongation. 
A2.2.1.2 Unless otherwise required by the product 
specification, the gauge length is 2 in. or 50 mm, except that for 
tubing having an outside diameter of 3/s in. (9.5 mm) or less, it 
is customary for a gauge length equal to four times the outside 
611 
@) 
FIG. A2.1 Metal Plugs for Testing Tubular Specimens, Proper Lo­
cation of Plugs in Specimen and of Specimen in Heads of Test­
ing Machine 
diameter to be used when elongation comparable to that 
obtainable with larger test specimens is required. 
A2.2.1.3 To determine the cross-sectional area of the full­
section specimen, measurements shall be recorded as the 
average or mean between the greatest and least measurements 
of the outside diameter and the average or mean wall thickness, 
to the nearest 0.001 in. (0.025 mm) and the cross-sectional area 
is determined by the following equation: 
A= 3.1416t (D t) (A2. l) 
where: 
A = sectional area, in.2 
D = outside diameter, in., and 
t = thickness of tube wall, in. 
Norn A2.1-There exist other methods of cross-sectional area 
determination, such as by weighing of the specimens, which are equally 