ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-748/SA-748M 
7. Number of Tests 
7 .1 The number of tension tests shall be in accordance with 
Specification A278/A278M. 
8. Specimen Preparation 
8.1 Test bars representing the gray iron portion of the roll 
shall be made from a prolongation at one end of the roll journal 
in accordance with Specification A278/A278M. Tension test 
specimens machined from this prolongation shall conform to 
the dimensions shown for Specimen "C" in Specification 
A278/A278M. 
9. Test Method 
9 .1 Tension test specimens shall fit the holders of the testing 
machine in such a way that the load shall be axial. The use of 
self-aligning shackles is suggested. After reaching a stress 
equivalent to 15 000 psi [100 MPa], the speed of the moving 
head of the testing machine shall. not exceed Vs in. [3.2 
mm]/min. 
lO. Inspection 
10.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
free entry at all times, while work on the contract of the 
purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's 
works that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. 
The manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable 
facilities to satisfy him that the material is being furnished in 
accordance with this specification. Unless otherwise specified, 
all tests and inspections shall be made at the place of 
manufacture prior to the shipment, and shall be so conducted as 
not to interfere unnecessarily with the operation of the works. 
11. Acceptance and Certification 
11.1 Final acceptance of the casting shall follow complete 
machining of the casting. Upon request of the purchaser and 
when so specified in the purchase order, a certification shall be 
made on the basis of acceptance of the material. This shall 
consist of a copy of the manufacturer's test report or a 
statement by the supplier, accompanied by a copy of the test 
results, that the material has been sampled, tested, and in­
spected in accordance with the provisions of this specification. 
Each certification so furnished shall be signed by an authorized 
agent of the supplier or manufacturer. 
12. Product Marking 
12.1 Pressure-containing castings made in accordance with 
this specification shall have the nam.e of the manufacturer or 
his recognized trademark and the class of iron to which it 
conforms, cast or indelibly stamped on the surface indicated by 
the purchaser or in such a position as not to injure the 
usefulness of the casting. 
1219 