SA-320/SA-320M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Alloy-Steel and Stainless Steel Bolting for Low-Temperature 
Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers alloy and stainless steel bolt­
ing materials and bolting components for pressure vessels, 
valves, flanges, and fittings for low-temperature service. See 
Specification A962/ A962M for the definition of bolting. The 
bars shall be hot-wrought and may be further processed by 
centerless grinding or by cold drawing. Austenitic stainless 
steel may be solution annealed or annealed and strain­
hardened. When strain hardened austenitic stainless steel is 
ordered, the purchaser should take special care to ensure that 
Appendix Xl is thoroughly understood. 
1.2 Several grades are covered, including both ferritic and 
austenitic steels designated L7, B8, etc. Selection will depend 
on design, service conditions, mechanical properties, and 
low-temperature characteristics. The mechanical requirements 
of Table 1 indicate the diameters for which the minimum 
mechanical properties apply to the various grades and classes, 
and Table 2 stipulates the requirements for Charpy impact 
energy absorption. The manufacturer should determine that the 
material can conform to these requirements before parts are 
manufactured. For example, when Grade L43 is specified to 
meet the Table 2 impact energy values at -150 °F [-101 °C], 
additional restrictions (such as procuring a steel with lower P 
and S contents than might normally be supplied) in the 
chemical composition for AISI 4340 are likely to be required. 
NoTE 1-The committee formulating this specification has included 
several grades of material that have been rather extensively used for the 
present purpose. Other compositions will be considered for inclusion by 
the committee from time to time as the need becomes apparent. Users 
should note that hardenability of some of the grades mentioned may 
restrict the maximum size at which the required mechanical properties are 
obtainable. 
1.3 The following referenced general requirements are in­
dispensable for application of this specification: Specification 
A962/A962M. 
1.4 Nuts for use with bolting are covered in Section 10 and 
the nut material shall be impact tested. 
1.5 Supplementary Requirements are provided for use at the 
option of the purchaser. The supplementary requirements shall 
apply only when specified in the purchase order or contract. 
i.6 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and SI units; however, unless the purchase order or contract 
specifies the applicable M specification designation (SI) units, 
the inch-pound units shall apply. 
1.7 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
466 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A194/A194M Specification for Carbon Steel, Alloy Steel, 
and Stainless Steel Nuts for Bolts for High Pressure or 
High Temperature Service, or Both 
A962/ A962M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Bolting Intended for Use at Any Temperature from Cryo­
genic to the Creep Range 
E566 Practice for Electromagnetic (Eddy Current/Magnetic 
Induction) Sorting of Ferrous Metals 