SA-283/SA-283M (ASTM A283/A283M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
c6 Designation: A283/A283M-18 
~u11 7 
INTERNATIONAL 
Standard Specification for 
Low and Intermediate Tensile Strength Carbon Steel Plates 1 
This standard is issued under the fixed designation A283/ A283M; the number immediately following the designation indicates the year 
of original adoption or, in the case of revision, the year of last revision. A number in parentheses indicates the year of last reapproval. 
A superscript epsilon (") indicates an editorial change since the last revision or reapproval. 
This standard has been approved for use by agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense. 
1. Scope* 
1.1 This specification 2 covers two grades (C and D) of 
carbon steel plates of structural quality for general application. 
1.2 When the steel is to be welded, a welding procedure 
suitable for the grade of steel and intended use or service is to 
be utilized. See Appendix X3 of Specification A6/ A6M for 
information on weldability. 
1.3 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units ·are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
1.4 For plate produced from coil and furnished without heat 
treatment or with stress relieving only, the additional 
requirements, including additional testing requirements and the 
reporting of additional test results, of Specification A6/ A6M 
apply. 
1.5 This specification contains notes or footnotes, or both, 
that provide explanatory material. Such notes and footnotes, 
excluding those in tables and figures, do not contain any 
mandatory requirements. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
1 This specification is under the jurisdiction of ASTM Committee AO! on Steel, 
Stainless Steel and Related Alloys and is the direct responsibility of Subcommittee 
A0l.02 on Structural Steel for Bridges, Buildings, Rolling Stock and Ships. 
Current edition approved June 1, 2018. Published June 2018. Originally 
approved in 1946. Last previous edition approved in 2013 as A283/A283M - 13. 
DOI: 10.1520/A0283_A0283M-18. 
2 For ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code applications, see related Specifi­
cation SA-283/SA 283M in Section II of that Code. 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 3 
A6/ A6M Specification for General Requirements for Rolled 
Structural Steel Bars, Plates, Shapes, and Sheet Piling 
3. General Requirements for Delivery 
3.1 Plates furnished under this specification shall con-form 
to the requirements of the current edition of Specification 
A6/A6M, for the specific date ordered, unless a conflict exists, 
in which case this specification shall prevail. 
3.2 Coils are excluded from qualification to this specifica­
tion until they are processed into finished plates. Plates 
produced from coil means plates that have been cut to 
individual lengths from a coil. The processor directly controls, 
or is responsible for, the operations involved in the processing 
of a coil into finished plates. Such operations include decoiling, 
leveling, cutting to length, testing, inspection, conditioning, 
heat treatment (if applicable), packaging, marking, loading for 
shipment, and certification. 
NoTE 1-For plates produced from coil and furnished without heat 
treatment or with stress relieving only, two test results are to be reported 
for each qualifying coil. Additional requirements regarding plate produced 
from coil are described in Specification A6/A6M. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 The steel shall be made by one or more of the following 
processes: basic-oxygen or electric-furnace. 
4.2 The steel shall be killed. 
3 For referenced ASTM standards, visit the ASTM website, www.astm.org, or 
contact ASTM Customer Service at service@astm.org. For Annual Book of ASTM 
Standards volume information, refer to the standard's Document Summary page on 
the ASTM website. 
* A Summary of Changes section appears at the end of this standard 
424 