SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
condition. Test specimens for heat-treated structural products 
shall be taken from test coupons that are representative of the 
structural products in their delivered condition, or from sepa­
rate pieces of full thickness or full section from the same heat 
similarly heat treated. 
11.1.1 Where the plate is heat treated with a cooling rate 
faster than still-air cooling from the austenitizing temperature, 
one of the following shall apply in addition to other require­
ments specified herein: 
11. 1.1.1 The gage length of the tension test specimen shall 
be taken at least lT from any as-heat treated edge where Tis 
the thickness of the plate and shall be at least ½ in. [12.5 mm] 
from flame cut or heat-affected-zone surfaces. 
11.1.1.2 A steel thermal buffer pad, 1 Tby lTby at least 3T, 
shall be joined to the plate edge by a partial penetration weld 
completely sealing the buffered edge prior to heat treatment. 
11.1.1.3 Thermal insulation or other thermal barriers shall 
be used during the heat treatment adjacent to the plate edge 
where specimens are to be removed. It shall be demonstrated 
that the cooling rate of the tension test specimen is no faster 
than, and not substantially slower than, that attained by the 
method described in 11.1.1.2. 
11.1.1.4 When test coupons cut from the plate but heat 
treated separately are used, the coupon dimensions shall be not 
less than 3Tby 3Tby T and each tension specimen cut from it 
shall meet the requirements of 11.1.1.1. 
11.1.1.5 The heat treatment of test specimens separately in 
the device shall be subject to the limitations that (J) cooling 
rate data for the plate are available; (2) cooling rate control 
devices for the test specimens are available; and, (3) the 
method has received prior approval by the purchaser. 
11.2 Orientation-For plates wider than 24 in. [600 mm], 
test specimens shall be taken such that the longitudinal axis of 
the test specimen is transverse to the final direction of rolling 
of the plate. Test specimens for all other structural products 
shall be taken such that the longitudinal axis of the test 
specimen is parallel to the final direction of rolling. 
11.3 Location: 
11.3.1 Plates-Test specimens shall be taken from a corner 
of the plate. 
11.3.2 Wand HP Shapes with Flanges 6 in. [150 mm] or 
Wider-Test specimens shall be selected from a point in the 
flange 2/3 of the way from the flange centerline to the flange toe. 
11.3.3 Shapes Other Than Those in 11.3.2-Test specimens 
shall be selected from the webs of beams, channels, and zees; 
from the stems of rolled tees; and from the legs of angles and 
bulb angles, except where full-section test specimens for 
angles are used and the elongation acceptance criteria are 
increased accordingly. (See 11.6.2.) 
11.3.4 Bars: 
11.3.4.1 Test specimens for bars to be used for pins and 
rollers shall be taken so that the axis is: midway between the 
center and the surface for pins and rollers less than 3 in. [75 
mm] in diameter; 1 in. [25 mm] from the surface for pins and 
rollers 3 in. [75 mm] and over in diameter; or as specified in 
12 
Annex Al of Test Methods and Definitions A370 if the 
applicable foregoing requirement is not practicable. 
11.3.4.2 Test specimens for bars other than those to be used 
for pins and rollers shall be taken as specified in Annex Al of 
Test Methods and Definitions A370. 
11.4 Test Frequency: 
11.4.1 Structural Products Produced from an As-Rolled 
Structural Product-The minimum number of pieces or plates­
as-rolled to be tested for each heat and strength gradation, 
where applicable, shall be as follows, except that it shall be 
permissible for any individual test to represent multiple 
strength gradations: 
11.4.1.1 As given in Table B, or 
11.4.1.2 One taken from the minimum thickness in the heat 
and one taken from the maximum thickness in the heat, where 
thickness means the specified thickness, diameter, or compa­
rable dimension, whichever is appropriate for the applicable 
structural product rolled. 
11.4.2 Structural Products Produced from Coil and Fur­
nished without Heat Treatment or with Stress Relieving Only: 
11.4.2.1 Except as allowed by 11.4.4, the minimum number 
of coils to be tested for each heat and strength gradation, where 
applicable, shall be as given in Table C, except that it shall be 
permissible for any individual coil to represent multiple 
strength gradations. 
11.4.2.2 Except as required by 11.4.2.3, two tension test 
specimens shall be taken from each coil tested, with the first 
being taken immediately prior to the first structural product to 
be qualified, and the second being taken from the approximate 
center lap. 
11.4.2.3 If, dming decoiling, the amount of material de­
coiled is less than that required to reach the approximate center 
lap, the second test for the qualification of the decoiled portion 
of such a coil shall be taken from a location adjacent to the end 
of the innermost portion decoiled. For qualification of succes­
sive portions from such a coil, an additional test shall be taken 
adjacent to the innermost pottion decoiled, until a test is 
obtained from the approximate center lap. 
11.4.3 Structural Products Produced from Coil and Fur­
nished Heat Treated by other than Stress Relieving-The 
minimum number of pieces to be tested for each heat and 
strength gradation, where applicable, shall be as follows, 
except that it shall be permissible for any individual test to 
represent multiple strength gradations: 
11.4.3.1 As given in Table B, or 
11.4.3.2 One taken from the minimum thickness in the heat 
and one taken from the maximum thickness in the heat, where 
thickness means the specified thickness, diameter, or compa­
rable dimension, whichever is appropriate for the applicable 
structural product rolled. 
11.4.4 Structural Products Produced from Coil and Quali­
fied Using Test Specimens Heat Treated by Other than Stress 
Relieving-The minimum number of pieces to be tested for 
each heat and strength gradation, where applicable, shall be as 
follows, except that it shall be permissible for any individual 
test to represent multiple strength gradations: 