ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-749/SA-749M 
for press-work operations or welding. Hot-rolled and hot­
rolled descaled strip are not generally used for exposed 
parts where surface is of prime importance. However, hot­
rolled surface might be of importance, as in the case of 
weathering steels for exposed parts. 
9.1.1 Hot-rolled strip can be supplied with mill 
edges, square edges, or cut (slit) edges as specified. 
9.1.1.1 Mill edges are the natural edges resulting 
from the hot-rolling operation and are generally round and 
smooth without any definite contour. 
9.1.1.2 Square edges are the edges resulting from 
rolling through vertical edging rolls during the hot-rolling 
operations. These edges are square and smooth, with the 
comers slightly rounded. 
9.1.1.3 Cut (slit) edges are the normal edges that 
result from the shearing, slitting, or trimming of mill edges. 
9.1.2 The ends of plain hot-rolled mill-edge coils 
are irregular in shape and are referred to as uncropped 
ends. Where such ends are not acceptable, the purchaser's 
order should so specify. Processed coils such as pickled 
or blast cleaned are supplied with square-cut ends. 
9.2 Oiling: 
9.2.1 Plain hot-rolled strip is customarily furnished 
not oiled. Oiling must be specified when required 
9.2.2 Hot-rolled pickled or descaled strip is custom­
arily furnished oiled. If the product is not to be oiled, it 
must be so specified since the cleaned surface is prone to 
rusting. 
10. General Requirements for Delivery 
10.1 Products covered by this specification are pro­
duced to inch-pound or metric decimal thickness only. 
10.2 Steel may be produced as ingot-cast or strand­
cast. When different grades of strand-cast steel are sequen­
tially cast, identification and separation of the transition 
material is required. 
11. Retests 
11.1 If any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws, it must be discarded and another specimen 
substituted. 
11.2 If the percentage of elongation of any tension test 
specimen is less than that specified and any part of the 
fracture is more than [nl]P in. [20 mm] from the center of 
the gage length of a 2 in. [50 mm] specimen or is outside 
the middle half of the gage length of an 8 in. [200 mm] 
specimen, as indicated by scribe scratches marked on the 
specimen before testing, a retest is allowed. 
11.3 If a bend specimen fails, due to conditions of 
bending more severe than required by the specification, a 
retest is permitted either on a duplicate specimen or on a 
remaining portion of the failed specimen. 
12. Inspection 
12.1 When the purchaser's order stipulates that inspec­
tion and test (except product analyses) for acceptance on 
the steel be made prior to shipment from the mill, the 
manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector all rea­
sonable facilities to satisfy him that the steel is being pro­
duced and furnished in accordance with the specification. 
Mill inspection by the purchaser shall not interfere unneces­
sarily with the manufacturer's operation. 
13. Rejection and Rehearing 
13.1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection shall be 
reported to the manufacturer within a reasonable time after 
receipt of material by the purchaser. 
13.2 Material that is reported to be defective subsequent 
to the acceptance at the purchaser's works shall be set 
aside, adequately protected, and correctly identified. The 
manufacturer shall be notified as soon as possible so that 
an investigation may be initiated. 
13.3 Samples that are representative of the rejected 
material shall be made available to the manufacturer. In 
the event that the manufacturer is dissatisfied with the 
rejection, he may request a rehearing. 
14. Test Reports and Certification 
14.1 When test reports are required by the purchase 
order or the material specification, the supplier shall report 
the results of all tests required by the material specification 
and the order. 
14.2 When certification is required by the purchase 
order, the supplier shall furnish a certification that the 
material has been manufactured and tested in accordance 
with the requirements of the material specification. 
14.3 A signature is not required on test reports or 
certifications. However, the document shall clearly identify 
the organization submitting the document. Notwithstand­
ing the absence of a signature, the organization submitting 
the document is responsible for the content of the doc­
ument. 
14.4 When test reports are required, copies of the origi­
nal material manufacturer's test report shall be included 
with any subsequent test report. 
14.5 A material test report, certificate of inspection, or 
similar document printed from or used in electronic form 
1225 