SA-134/SA-134M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
metal after bending. Cracks that originate along the edges of 
the specimens during testing and that are less than ¼ in. [6 
mm] in any direction, shall not be considered. 
10. Tensile Properties of Production Welds 
10.1 Reduced-section tension test specimens required in 
Section 8, taken perpendicularly across the weld with the weld 
reinforcement removed, shall show a tensile strength not less 
than 95 % of the specified minimum strength of the steel. At 
the manufacturer's option, the test may be made without 
removing the weld reinforcement, in which case the tensile 
strength shall be not less than the specified minimum tensile 
strength for the grade of steel used. 
11. Hydrostatic.Test (Note 5) 
11.1 Each length of pipe shall be tested by the manufacturer 
to a hydrostatic pressure that will produce in the pipe wall a 
stress of 60 % of the specified minimum yield point of the steel 
used at room temperature. The pressure shall be determined by 
the following equation: 
P = 2St/D 
where: 
P = minimum hydrostatic test pressure, psi (Note 6) (not to 
exceed 2800 psi [19 MPa]), 
S = 0.60 times the minimum specified yield point of the 
steel used, psi [MPa], 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], and 
D = specified outside diameter, in. [mm]. 
NoTE 5-A hydrostatic sizing operation is not to be considered a 
hydrostatic test or a substitute for it. 
NoTE 6-When the diameter and wall thickness of pipe are such that the 
capacity limits of testing equipment are exceeded by these requirements, 
the test pressures may be reduced by agreement between the purchaser and 
the manufacturer. 
11.2 Test pressure shall be held for not less than 5 s, or for 
a longer time as agreed upon between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer. 
NoTE 7-When agreed upon between the purchaser and the manufac­
turer and so stated on the order, pipe may be tested to one and one half 
times the specified working pressure, except that the maximum test 
pressure shall not exceed 2800 psi [19 MPa] nor shall the maximum fiber 
stress exceed 85 % of specified minimum yield point of steel or to a fiber 
stress that does not exceed 85 % of the specified minimum yield point of 
the steel or 2800-psi [19-MPa] test pressure. 
11.3 When specified in the order, pipe may be furnished 
without hydrostatic testing and each length so furnished shall 
include the mandatory marking of the letters "NH." 
Additionally, the certification, when required, shall state "Not 
Hydrostatically Tested" and the specification number and 
material grade, as shown on the certification, shall be followed 
by the letters "NH." 
12. Permissible Variations in Weights and Dimensions 
12.1 Thickness and Weight-The wall thickness and weight 
for welded pipe under this specification shall be governed by 
the requirements of the specifications to which the steel was 
ordered. 
182 
12.2 Circumference-The outside circumference of the pipe 
shall not vary more than ±0.5 % from the nominal outside 
circumference based upon the diameter specified, except that 
the circumference at ends shall be sized, if necessary, to meet 
the requirements of Section 14. 
12.3 Straightness-Finished pipe shall be commercially 
straight. When specific straightness requirements are desired, 
the order should so state, and the tolerances shall be a matter of 
agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
12.4 Ovality-Out-of-roundness-The difference between 
major and minor outside diameter shall not exceed 1 %. Closer 
tolerances may be established by agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. Where the D/I' ( outside 
diameter/wall thickness) is over 120, internal bracing should be 
utilized to achieve sizing of ends and ovality shall be by 
agreement between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
13. Lengths 
13.1 Pipe lengths shall be supplied in accordance with the 
following regular practice: 
13.1.1 The lengths shall be as specified on the order with a 
tolerance of±½ in. [13 mm], except that the shorter lengths 
from which test coupons have been cut may also be shipped. 
13.1.2 When random lengths are specified, pipe shall be 
furnished in lengths having a minimum average of 29 ft [9 m] 
with a minimum length of 20 ft [6 m], but not more than 5 % 
may be under 25 ft [8 m]. 
13.2 Pipe lengths containing circumferentially welded joints 
(Note 8) shall be permitted by agreement between the manu­
facturer and the purchaser. Tests of these welded joints shall be 
made in accordance with the procedure tests specified in 
Section 9 and the production weld tests specified in Section 10. 
The number of production weld tests shall be one per each lot 
of 100 joints or fraction thereof, but not less than one for each 
welder or welding operator. 
NoTE 8-Joints are defined for the purpose of this specification as a 
circumferential welded seam lying in one plane, used to join lengths of 
straight pipe. 
14. Ends 
14.1 Pipe shall be furnished with a plain right-angle cut or 
with bevel ends as specified. All burrs at the ends of pipe shall 
be removed. 
14.1.1 Unless otherwise specified, pipe with beveled ends 
shall meet the requirements of ANSI B 16.25. 
14.2 Unless otherwise specified, the outside circumference 
of pipe ends for a distance of not less than 4 in. [100 mm] shall 
not vary more than ± 60 % of the nominal wall thickness of the 
pipe from the nominal outside circumference based on the 
diameter specified, except that the tolerance shall not be less 
than ± 3/16 in. [5 mm]. 
14.3 By agreement between the manufacturer and the pur­
chaser the ends of the pipe may be sized within agreed-upon 
tolerances if necessary to meet the requirements of special 
installations. 