ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
¼"-I 
Hardened rollers, l ½" diam may be 
substituted for jig shoulders 
· !----As r,,,.,ulred ---►1 ;;l! ~., 
I _ ____,.....__,__ 
Yoke 
Norn 1-Metric equivalent: 1 in.= 25.4 mm. 
Test Specimen Thickness, in. 
% 
I 
% 
t 
A 
1½ 
41 
2½ 
6% t 
B 
¾ 
21 
1¼ 
31/s I 
C 
2% 
61+ 1/s 
3% 
8% t+ 1/s 
D 
1 3/10 
31 + 1/16 
Material 
1 1 1/16 Materials with a specified minimum tensile strength of 95 ksi or 
4½ I+ ½s greater. 
FIG. A2.15 Guided-bend Test Jig 
A3. STEEL FASTENERS 
A3.1 Scope 
A3.l.1 This annex contains testing requirements for Steel 
Fasteners that are specific to the product. The requirements 
contained in this annex are supplementary to those found in the 
general section of this specification. In the case of conflict 
between requirements provided in this annex and those found 
in the general section of this specification, the requirements of 
this annex shall prevail. In the case of conflict between 
requirements provided in this annex and requirements found in 
product specifications, the requirements found in the product 
specification shall prevail. 
A3.l.2 These tests are set up to facilitate production control 
testing and acceptance testing with certain more precise tests to 
be used for arbitration in case of disagreement over test results. 
A3.2 Tension Tests 
A3.2.l It is preferred that bolts be tested full size, and it is 
customary, when so testing bolts to specify a minimum 
ultimate load in pounds, rather than a minimum ultimate 
strength in pounds per square inch. Three times the bolt 
nominal diameter has been established as the minimum bolt 
length subject to the tests described in the remainder of this 
section. Subsections A3.2.l.1 - A3.2.l.6 apply when testing 
bolts full size. Subsection A3.2.l.4 shall apply where the 
individual product specifications permit the use of machined 
specimens. 
A3.2.l.1 Proof Load-Due to particular uses of certain 
classes of bolts it is desirable to be able to stress them, while 
in use, to a specified value without obtaining any permanent 
set. To be certain of obtaining this quality the proof load is 
specified. The proof load test consists of stressing the bolt with 
a specified load which the bolt must withstand without perma­
nent set. An alternate test which determines yield strength of a 
full size bolt is also allowed. Either of the following Methods, 
1 or 2, may be used but Method 1 shall be the arbitration 
method in case of any dispute as to acceptance of the bolts. 
A3.2.l.2 Proof Load Testing Long Bolts-When fasteners 
are too long to test in the available equipment they may be cut 
to 8 ± 0.125 in. and tested using Method I. If there is a dispute 
over results when testing the same part or lot of parts both full 
size and cut to 8 in., the 8 in. test results shall be used to 
determine acceptance. 
619 
(a) Method 1, Length Measurement-The overall length of 
a straight bolt shall be measured at its true center line with an 
instrument capable of measuring changes in length of 