ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-962/SA-962M 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al.I New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this Specification of General Re­
quirements subject to the following conditions: 
Al. 1. 1 Application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
Al.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, shall be furnished. 
Al.1.4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
Al. 1.5 The application shall state whether the new grade is 
covered by patent. 
A2. CHANGES TO EXISTING GRADES 
A2. l When changes such as chemistry, heat treatment, or 
processing, or combinations thereof are proposed for grades in 
specifications under the purview of AOl.22, it is the purview of 
the subcommittee to request additional data/tests. Testing 
required may include, but is not limited to, stress rupture, 
tensile, impact, and stress relaxation in order to validate that 
the changes have not adversely impacted those properties, even 
though the testing may not normally be required by the 
standard. 
A3. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF MATERIALS FROM OTHER A0l OR B02.07 SPECIFICATIONS 
A3 .1 Wrought mate1ials that are already covered by another 
AOl or B02.07 specification may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
A3. l.1 Application for the addition of a grade that is already 
covered in another AOl or B02.07 specification shall be made 
to the chair of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the 
specification to which the addition is being proposed. 
A3.l.2 The chemical requirements, the specified mechani­
cal properties, and the heat treatment requirements of the grade 
being added shall be the same as those for the grade in the AO 1 
or B02.07 specification in which the grade is presently covered. 
A3.l.3 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
A3.l.4 The application shall state whether or not the grade 
is covered by patent. 
1423 