ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-476/SA-476M 
7. Mechanical Properties 
7.1 The iron represented by test coupons shall conform 
to tensile requirements prescribed in Table 1. 
7.2 The yield strength prescribed in Table 1 may be 
determined by any of the approved procedures described 
in 7.3 of Test Methods E 8. 
7.3 The Brinell hardness of the material shall be a 
minimum of 201 HB. Hardness tests shall be conducted 
in accordance with Test Method E 10, using a 3000 kgf 
load. The test may be made on either the casting or on a 
test coupon representing the casting. 
8. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
8.1 The castings shall conform to the dimensions on 
the drawings furnished by the purchaser, or if no drawing 
has been provided, to the dimensions predicated by the 
pattern supplied by the purchaser. Surfaces of the castings 
shall be free of adhering sand. Runners, risers, fins, and 
other extraneous metal shall be removed. 
9. Sampling 
9.1 Test coupons shall be poured from the same iron 
as the castings represented. 
9.2 Test coupons shall be cast either to the "Y" block 
size and shape shown in Fig. 1 or to the dimensions of the 
1 in. [25-mm] keel block shown in Fig. 2. The type of test 
coupon and, when selected, the size of the "Y" block shall 
be specified by the purchaser. 
9.3 The test coupons shall be cast in open molds made 
of suitable core sand with a minimum 1½ in. [38 mm] of 
sand for the 1 in. [25 mm] size and 3 in. [75 mm] of sand 
for the 3 in. [75 mm] size. The coupons shall be left in 
the mold until black. 
9.4 Table 2 shows the equivalent geometrical shapes 
with various dimensions and the equivalent "Y" block, 
based on cooling rates, and may be used as a guide for 
selection of the proper "Y" block to be specified to repre­
sent the casting. 
9.5 When the castings are heat treated, the test coupons 
shall be heat treated with the castings they represent. 
10. Tension Test 
10.1 Tension test specimens shall be obtained from test 
coupons shown in either Fig. 1 or Fig. 2, and machined 
to the dimensions shown in Fig. 3. Test coupons cast as 
"Y" blocks (Fig. 1) shall be sectioned as shown in Fig. 4. 
10.2 One tension test shall be performed for each 
casting. 
10.3 If any specimen shows defective machining or 
flaws, it may be discarded and another substituted from 
the same casting represented. 
10.4 If an apparently sound test specimen fails to con­
form to the tensile requirements, two retests may be made. 
If either retest fails to conform to the requirements speci­
fied, the castings shall be rejected. 
11. Repairs 
11.1 Castings made to this specification that leak on 
subsequent hydrostatic testing may be repaired by using 
threaded plugs provided the following requirements are 
met. 
11.1.1 No welding or brazing shall be permitted. 
11.1.2 The diameter of the plug shall not exceed 
the diameter of a standard 2 in. [ISO R2] iron pipe size 
pipe plug. 
11.1.3 The plugs, where practical, shall conform in 
all dimensions to the standard iron pipe size pipe plugs. 
In addition, they shall have full thread engagement corres­
ponding to the thickness of the repaired section. Where a 
tapered plug is impractical because of the excess wall 
thickness in terms of plug diameter and coincident thread 
engagement, other types of plugs may be used provided 
both full thread engagement and effective sealing against 
pressure are obtained. Where possible the ends of the plugs 
should be ground smooth after installation to conform to 
the inside and outside contours of the cylinder. 
11.1.4 The material from which the plug is manufac­
tured shall conform in all respects to this specification. 
769 
11.1.5 The area adjacent to the drilled hole should 
be examined radiographically in accordance with Guide 
E 94. The area examined shall meet the requirements of 
Severity Level 3 of Reference Radiographs E 446. 
11.1.6 The thickness of any repaired section in rela­
tion to the size of plug used shall be not less than that 
given in Table 3. 
11.1.7 The minimum radius of curvature of the 
repaired section of the cylinder in relation to the size of 
plug used shall be not less than that given in Table 4. 
11.1.8 A repaired area may consist of a maximum 
of three plugs with a spacing such that the distance between 
adjacent plugs shall not be less than those listed in Table 
5. Adjacent areas of repair, in which each contains more 
than one plug, shall be separated by at least twice the 
distance required in Table 5 for the two nearest plugs 
separating the two areas. 
11.2 Surface imperfections not exceeding 20% of the 
thickness of the section and other minor defects may be 
repaired by plugging provided the diameter of the plug 
does not exceed its length. 