ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-358/SA-358M 
8.1.4 Thickness-The minimum wall thickness at any point 
in the pipe shall not be more than 0.01 in. [0.3 mm] under the 
nominal thickness. 
9. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
9.1 The finished pipe shall have a workmanlike finish. 
9.2 Repair of Plate Defects by Machining or Grinding-It is 
permitted to repair pipes showing slivers, or other smface 
defects, by machining or grounding inside or outside to a depth 
that ensures the removal of all included scale and slivers, 
provided that the wall thickness is not reduced below the 
specified minimum wall thickness. Machining or grinding shall 
follow inspection of the pipe as rolled, and shall be followed by 
supplementary visual inspection. 
9.3 Repair of Plate Defects by Welding-It is permitted to 
repair by welding defects that violate minimum wall thickness, 
but only with the approval of the purchaser. Areas shall be 
suitably prepared for welding with tightly closed defects 
removed by grinding. Open, clean defects, such as pits or 
impressions, may require no preparation. All welders, welding 
operators, and weld procedures shall be qualified to the ASME 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX. Unless the 
purchaser specifies otherwise, pipe required to be heat treated 
under the provisions of 6.3, shall be heat treated or reheat 
treated following repair welding. Repaired lengths, where 
repair depth is greater than ¼ of the thickness, shall be pressure 
tested or repressure tested after repair and heat treatment (if 
any). Repair welds shall also be examined by suitable non­
destmctive examination techniques, including any techniques 
specifically required of the primary weld. 
9 .4 The pipe shall be free of scale and contaminating iron 
particles. Pickling, blasting, or surface finishing is not manda­
tory when pipe is bright annealed. The purchaser is permitted 
to request that a passivating treatment be applied. 
10. Heat Analysis 
10.1 An analysis of each heat of steel shall be made by the 
plate manufacturer to determine the percentages of the ele­
ments prescribed in Specification A240/A240M. The chemical 
composition thus determined shall confonn to the requirements 
prescribed in Specification A240/A240M. 
11. Product Analysis 
11.1 For each lot of 500 ft [150 m] of pipe or fraction 
thereof, analysis shall be made by the manufacturer from the 
finished pipe of the plate and of the weld deposit. Dtillings for 
analysis may be taken from the mechanical test specimens. The 
results of these analyses shall be reported to the purchaser or 
the purchaser's representative, and shall conform to the re­
quirements of Section 7, subject to the product analysis 
tolerances of Table 1 in Specification A480/ A480M. 
11.2 If the analysis of one of the tests specified in 9.1 does 
not conform to the requirements specified in Section 7, 
analyses shall be made on additional pipe of double the original 
number from the same lot, each of which shall conform to the 
requirements specified. 
12. Tensile Requirements 
12.1 The plate used in making the pipe shall conform to the 
requirements as to tensile properties of the applicable specifi­
cations listed in Table 1. Tension tests made by the plate 
manufacturer shall qualify the plate material. 
12.2 The transverse tension test taken across the welded 
joint specimen shall have a tensile strength not less than the 
specified minimum tensile strength of the plate. 
13. Transverse Guided-Bend Weld Tests 
13.1 Two bend test specimens shall be taken transversely 
from the pipe. Except as provided in 13.2, one shall be subject 
to a face guided-bend test and the second to a root guided-bend 
test. One specimen shall be bent with the inside smface of the 
pipe against the plunger, and the other with the outside surface 
against the plunger. 
13.2 For wall thicknesses over 3/s in. [9.5 mm] but less than 
¾ in. [19 mm] side-bend tests may be made instead of the face 
and root-bend tests. For specified wall thicknesses ¾ in. [19 
mm] and over, both specimens shall be subjected to the 
side-bend tests. Side-bend specimens shall be bent so that one 
of the side surfaces becomes the convex surface of the bend 
specimen. 
13.3 The bend test shall be acceptable if no cracks or other 
defects exceeding 1h in. [3 mm] in any direction is present in 
the weld metal or between the weld and the pipe metal after 
bending. Cracks that originate along the edges of the specimen 
during testing, and that are less than¼ in. [6.5 mm] measured 
in any direction shall not be considered. 
14. Test Specimens and Methods of Testing 
14.1 Transverse tension and bend test specimens shall be 
taken from the end of the finished pipe; the transverse tension 
and bend test specimens shall be flattened cold before final 
machining to size. 
14.2 As an alternative to the requirements of 14.1, it is 
permitted to take the test specimens from a test plate of the 
same material as the pipe that is attached to the end of the 
cylinder and welded as a prolongation of the pipe longitudinal 
seam. 
14.3 Tension test specimens shall be made in accordance 
with Section IX, Part QW, Paragraph QW-150 of the ASME 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and shall be one of the types 
shown in QW-462.1 of that code. 
14.3.1 Reduced-section specimens conforming to the re­
quirements given in QW-462.1 (b) may be used for tension tests 
on all thicknesses of pipe having outside diameter greater than 
3 in. [76 mm]. 
14.3.2 Turned specimens conforming to the requirements of 
QW-462.l(d) may be used for tension tests. 
571 
14.3.2.1 If turned specimens are used as given in 14.3.2.2 
and 14.3.2.3, one complete set shall be made for each required 
tension test. 
14.3.2.2 For thicknesses to and including 1 ¼ in. [32 mm], it 
is permitted to use a single turned specimen. 
14.3.2.3 For thicknesses over 1 ¼ in. [32 mm], multiple 
specimens shall be cut through the full thickness of the weld 