SA-47 /SA-47M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Sl. Special Conditions 
Sl.1 If agreed upon in writing by the foundry and 
purchaser, the malleable iron castings may be required to 
meet special conditions, hardness or other property dimen­
sions, surface quality, or a combination of conditions. 
S2. Test Lugs 
S2.1 If requested in writing or if included on the pat­
tern(s) or pattern drawing(s), test lugs may be cast on all 
castings of sufficient size to permit their incorporation. 
The size of such lugs shall be proportional to the thickness 
of the casting. On castings over 24 in. [600 mm] in length, 
a test lug shall be cast near each end such as not to interfere 
with any subsequent processing of the castings. The pur­
chase order shall stipulate whether the foundry's inspector 
or the purchaser's inspector shall break, inspect, and pass 
judgment on the fracture quality of these test lugs. 
S3. Destructive Tests 
S3.1 At the option of the purchaser or his representa­
tive, a casting of each design ordered may be tested to 
destruction, or otherwise broken up, to determine the pres­
ence of any manufacturing condition that might be detri­
mental to the serviceability of the casting. 
136 
S4. Special Tension Specimens 
S4.1 If tension specimens are to be machined from 
castings, their location in the casting, the specimen dimen­
sions, and the required properties shall be agreed upon in 
writing by the foundry and purchaser. 
SS. Zinc-Coated Castings 
SS.1 When specified in the contract or purchase order, 
castings shall be zinc-coated by the hot-dip process in 
accordance with Specification A 153. Castings shall be of 
a composition that will preclude the possibility of galvaniz­
ing embrittlement, or shall be either cooled from the anneal 
or subsequently heat treated so as to be immunized against 
such embrittlement. If regalvanizing is required, proce­
dures for regalvanizing castings and determining the effect 
on the casting performance must be agreed upon between 
the purchaser and the seller. 
S6. Marking of Casting for Government 
Procurement 
S6.1 When castings are specified for government pro­
curement, the location of the permanent markings specified 
in 15.1, as well as any special marking for mechanical or 
physical properties (either permanent or temporary), shall 
be as indicated on the government drawings or sketches. 