ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-985/SA-985M 
nearest 500 psi [51 MPa] for yield and tensile strength and 
to the nearest 1 % for elongation and reduction of area. 
8. Repair by Welding 
8.1 Repair by welding shall be in accordance with the 
requirements of individual specifications using procedures 
and welders qualified in accordance with Practice 
A 488/A 488M. 
9. Flanges 
9.1 When a flange from a flanged casting is removed 
to make a weld-end casting, discontinuities may be 
observed that would not have been detrimental in a flanged 
casting. The disposition of the casting shall be subject to 
agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer. 
10. Quality 
10.1 The surface of the casting shall be free of adhering 
ceramic, scale, cracks, and hot tears as determined by visual 
examination. Other surface discontinuities shall meet the 
visual acceptance standards specified in the order. Unac­
ceptable visual surface discontinuities shall be removed 
and their removal verified by visual examination of the 
resultant cavities. 
10.2 The castings shall not be peened, plugged, or 
impregnated to stop leaks. 
10.3 When additional inspection is desired, Supplemen­
tary Requirements S4, S5, S7, or SlO may be specified. 
11. Hydrostatic Tests 
11.1 Each casting shall be tested after machining to 
the hydrostatic shell test pressures prescribed in ANSI 
B16.5 for the applicable steel rating for which the casting 
is designed. The casting shall not show any leaks. Castings 
ordered for working pressures other than those in the stan­
dard ANSI ratings, or those listed for which test pressures 
are not specified by ANSI B16.5, shall be tested at a pres­
sure agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
11.2 It is realized that the foundry may be unable to 
perform the hydrostatic test prior to shipment, or that the 
purchaser may wish to defer testing until additional work 
or machining has been performed on the casting. Castings 
ordered in the rough state for final machining by the pur­
chaser may be tested hydrostatically prior to shipment by 
the manufacturer at pressures to be agreed upon with the 
purchaser. The foundry, however, is responsible for the 
satisfactory performance of the casting under the final test 
required in 1 1. 1. 
12. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
12.1 All castings shall be made in a workmanlike man­
ner and shall conform to the dimensions on drawings fur­
nished by the purchaser. When the pattern is supplied by 
the purchaser or is produced using a die supplied by the 
purchaser, the dimensions of the casting shall be as predi­
cated by the pattern or die, unless otherwise agreed upon. 
12.2 Machined welding ends shall be suitably protected 
against damage during shipping. 
13. Retests 
13.1 If the results of the mechanical tests do not con­
form to the requirements specified, retests are permitted 
as outlined in Test Methods and Definitions A 370. At the 
manufacturer's option, castings may be reheat treated and 
retested. Testing after reheat treatment shall consist of the 
full number of specimens taken from locations complying 
with the specification or order. 
14. Inspection 
14.1 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's 
inspector all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy that 
the material is being produced and furnished in accordance 
with the applicable specification. Foundry inspection by 
the purchaser shall not interfere unnecessarily with the 
manufacturer's operations. All tests and inspections, with 
the exception of product analysis (5.2), are the responsibil­
ity of the manufacturer. 
15. Rejection and Rehearing 
15.1 Any rejection based on test reports shall be 
reported to the manufacturer within 30 days from the 
receipt of the test reports by the purchaser. 
15.2 Material that shows unacceptable discontinuities 
as determined by the acceptance standards specified in the 
order subsequent to its acceptance at the manufacturer's 
works will be rejected, and the manufacturer shall be noti­
fied within 30 days after discovery of the rejectable con­
dition. 
15.3 Samples that represent rejected material shall be 
preserved for two weeks from the date of transmission of 
the test report. In case of dissatisfaction with the results 
of the tests, the manufacturer may make claim for a rehear­
ing with that time. 
16. Certification 
16.1 The manufacturer's certification shall be furnished 
to the purchaser stating that the material was manufactured, 
1437 