ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
3.3 Definition of Terms Specific to the Procedure for Use 
and Control of Heat-cycle Simulation (See Annex A9): 
3.3.1 master chart, n-a record of the heat treatment re­
ceived from a forging essentially identical to the production 
forgings that it will represent. 
3.3.1.1 Discussion-It is a chart of time and temperature 
showing the output from thermocouples imbedded in the 
forging at the designated test immersion and test location or 
locations. 
3.3.2 program chart, n-the metallized sheet used to pro­
gram the simulator unit. 
3.3.2.1 Discussion-Time-temperature data from the master 
chart are manually transferred to the program chart. 
3.3.3 simulator chart, n-a record of the heat treatment that 
a test specimen had received in the simulator unit. 
3.3.3.1 Discussion-It is a chart of time and temperature 
and can be compared directly to the master chart for accuracy 
of duplication. 
3.3.4 simulator cycle, n-one continuous heat treatment of a 
set of specimens in the simulator nnit. 
3.3.4.l Discussion-The cycle includes heating from 
ambient, holding at temperature, and cooling. For example, a 
simulated austenitize and quench of a set of specimens would 
be one cycle; a simulated temper of the same specimens would 
be another cycle. 
4. Significance and Use 
4.1 The primary use of these test methods is testing to 
determine the specified mechanical properties of steel, stainless 
steel, and related alloy products for the evaluation of confor­
mance of such products to a material specification under the 
jurisdiction of ASTM Committee AOl and its subcommittees as 
designated by a purchaser in a purchase order or contract. 
4.1.1 These test methods may be and are used by other 
ASTM Committees and other standards writing bodies for the 
purpose of conformance testing. 
4.1.2 The material condition at the time of testing, sampling 
frequency, specimen location and orientation, reporting 
requirements, and other test parameters are contained in the 
pertinent material specification or in a general requirement 
specification for the particular product form. 
4.1.3 Some material specifications require the use of addi­
tional test methods not described herein; in such cases, the 
required test method is described in that material specification 
or by reference to another appropriate test method standard. 
4.2 These test methods are also suitable to be used for 
testing of steel, stainless steel and related alloy materials for 
other purposes, such as incoming material acceptance testing 
by the purchaser or evaluation of components after service 
exposure. 
4.2.1 As with any mechanical testing, deviations from either 
specification limits or expected as-manufactured properties can 
occur for valid reasons besides deficiency of the original 
as-fabricated product. These reasons include, but are not 
limited to: subsequent service degradation from environmental 
exposure (for example, temperature, corrosion); static or cyclic 
service stress effects, mechanically-induced damage, material 
inhomogeneity, anisotropic structure, natural aging of select 
alloys, further processing not included in the specification, 
sampling limitations, and measuring equipment calibration 
uncertainty. There is statistical variation in all aspects of 
mechanical testing and variations in test results from prior tests 
are expected. An understanding of possible reasons for devia­
tion from specified or expected test values should be applied in 
interpretation of test results. 
5. General Precautions 
5 .1 Certain methods of fabrication, such as bending, 
forming, and welding, or operations involving heating, may 
affect the properties of the material under test. Therefore, the 
product specifications cover the stage of manufacture at which 
mechanical testing is to be performed. The properties shown by 
testing p1ior to fabrication may not necessarily be representa­
tive of the product after it has been completely fabricated. 
5.2 Improperly machined specimens should be discarded 
and other specimens substituted. 
5.3 Flaws in the specimen may also affect results. If any test 
specimen develops flaws, the retest provision of the applicable 
product specification shall govern. 
5.4 If any test specimen fails because of mechanical reasons 
such as failure of testing equipment or improper specimen 
preparation, it may be discarded and another specimen taken. 
6. Orientation of Test Specimens 
6.1 The terms "longitudinal test" and "transverse test" are 
used only in material specifications for wrought products and 
are not applicable to castings. When such reference is made to 
a test coupon or test specimen, see Section 3 for terms and 
definitions. 
TENSION TEST 
7. Description 
7 .1 The tension test related to the mechanical testing of steel 
products subjects a machined or full-section specimen of the 
material under examination to a measured load sufficient to 
cause rupture. The resulting properties sought are defined in 
Terminology E6. 
587 
7.2 In general, the testing equipment and methods are given 
in Test Methods E8/E8M. However, there are certain excep­
tions to Test Methods E8/E8M practices in the testing of steel, 
and these are covered in these test methods. 
8. Testing Apparatus and Operations 
8.1 Loading Systems-There are two general types of load­
ing systems, mechanical (screw power) and hydraulic. These 
differ chiefly in the vaiiability of the rate of load application. 
The older screw power machines are limited to a small number 
of fixed free running crosshead speeds. Some modern screw 
power machines, and all hydraulic machines permit stepless 
variation throughout the range of speeds. 
8.2 The tension testing machine shall be maintained in good 
operating condition, used only in the proper loading range, and 
calibrated periodically in accordance with the latest revision of 
Practices E4. 