( 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-834 
A897/A897M Specification for Austempered Ductile Iron 
Castings 
A919 Terminology Relating to Heat Treatment of Metals 
(Withdrawn 1999) 
E8 Test Methods for Tension Testing of Metallic Materials 
ElO Test Method for Brinell Hardness of Metallic Materials 
E29 Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to 
Determine Conformance with Specifications 
E30 Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Steel, Cast Iron, 
Open-Hearth Iron, and Wrought Iron (Withdrawn 1995) 
E59 Practice for Sampling Steel and Iron for Determination 
of Chemical Composition (Withdrawn 1996) 
E94 Guide for Radiographic Examination 
E165 Practice for Liquid Penetrant Examination for General 
Industry 
E35 l Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Cast Iron-All 
Types 
E689 Reference Radiographs for Ductile Iron Castings 
E709 Guide for Magnetic Particle Testing 
E802 Reference Radiographs for Gray Iron Castings Up to 
4½ in. (114 mm) in Thickness 
2.2 Military Standard: 
MIL-STD-129 Marking for Shipment and Storage 
2.3 Federal Standard: 
Fed. Std. No. 123 Marking for Shipment (Civil Agencies) 
3. Terminology 
3.1 Definitions: 
3.1.1 Definitions for many terms common to iron castings 
and their heat treatment are found in Terminology A919 and 
Terminology A644. A classification of graphite structure is 
found in Test Method A247. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 The purchase order for castings ordered under this 
specification shall stipulate the applicable material specifica­
tion(s), grade of iron, and any options or additions to the basic 
requirements, including the supplementary requirements in­
cluded in this specification. 
5. Tensile Requirements 
5.1 The individual product specifications vary as to whether 
tension tests are required. For this reason, and to determine 
specific test requirements, the individual product specification 
shall be reviewed. When required, tension tests shall be 
determined in accordance with Test Methods E8. 
6. Chemical Requirements 
6.1 The individual product specifications vary as to whether 
chemical analysis is required. To determine specific require­
ments, the individual product specification should be reviewed. 
6.2 Sampling shall be conducted in accordance with Test 
Method E59. Spectrographic or other methods such as those in 
Test Methods E30 and E351 may be used for chemical 
analysis. In the event of a dispute regarding chemical compo­
sition, Test Methods E351 and E30 shall be used for referee 
purposes. 
6.3 The chemical analysis for total carbon shall be made on 
chilled pencil-type specimens or from thin wafers approxi­
mately 1/32 in. (0.8 mm) thick cut from test coupons. Drillings 
are not reliable because of a probable loss of graphite. 
6.4 Chemical analysis results shall be rounded, in accor­
dance with Practice E29, to the nearest unit in the last 
right-hand place of values in the table of chemical require­
ments. 
6.5 A product analysis may be made by the purchaser from 
material representing each heat, lot, or casting. The analysis 
shall be made on representative material. Samples for carbon 
analysis shall be taken no closer than ¼ in. to a cast surface, 
and shall follow the practice in 5.3, except where the size or 
shape of the casting does not permit such sampling. The 
chemical composition thus determined shall meet the require­
ments specified in the applicable specification for the grade 
involved. 
7. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
7.1 All castings shall be made in a workman-like manner 
and shall conform to the dimensions on drawings furnished by 
the purchaser before manufacture is started. If the pattern is 
supplied by the purchaser, the dimensions of the casting shall 
be as predicted by the pattern. 
8. Sampling 
8.1 A lot shall consist of one of the following: 
8.1.1 All the metal from a single heating in a batch-type 
melting furnace. 
8.1.2 All the metal poured from two or more batch-type 
melting furnaces into a single ladle or a single casting. 
8.1.3 All the metal poured from a continuous melting 
furnace for a given period of time between changes in charge, 
processing conditions, or aim-for chemistry, or 4 h, whichever 
is the shorter period. 
8.1.3.1 The purchaser may agree to extend the 4-h time 
period to 8 h if the manufacturer can demonstrate sufficient 
process control to warrant such an extension. 
9. Inspection 
9.1 All tests and inspections required by this specification 
shall be perfotmed by the manufacturer or other reliable 
sources whose services have been contracted for by the 
manufacturer. Complete records of all tests and inspections 
shall be maintained by the manufacturer and shall be available 
for review by the purchaser. 
9.2 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector 
all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy that the material is 
being produced and furnished in accordance with the appli­
cable specification. Foundry inspection by the purchaser shall 
not interfere unnecessarily with the manufacturer's operations. 
1347 