SA-53/SA-53M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
pipe NPS 4 [DN 100] or larger shall have thread protectors on 
the ends not protected by a coupling. 
11.3 If ordered with couplings, one end of each length of 
pipe shall be provided with a coupling manufactured in 
accordance with Specification A865/ A865M. The coupling 
threads shall be in accordance with the gaging practice of ANSI 
B 1.20.1. The coupling shall be applied handling-tight, unless 
power-tight is specified in the purchase order. Couplings are to 
be made of steel. Taper-tapped couplings shall be furnished on 
all threaded pipe NPS 2½ [DN 65] or larger. For pipe smaller 
than NPS 2½ [DN 65], it is regular practice to furnish 
straight-tapped couplings for standard-weight pipe and taper­
tapped couplings for extra-strong and double extra-strong 
weight pipe. If taper-tapped couplings are required for 
standard-weight pipe smaller than NPS 2½ [DN 65], it is 
recommended that line pipe threads in accordance with API 
Specification 5B be ordered. The taper-tapped couplings pro­
vided on line pipe in such sizes may be used on mill-threaded 
standard-weight pipe of the same size. 
12. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
12.1 The pipe manufacturer shall explore a sufficient num­
ber of visual surface imperfections to provide reasonable 
assurance that they have been properly evaluated with respect 
to depth. 
12.2 Surface imperfections that penetrate more than 12.5 % 
of the specified wall thickness or encroach on the minimum 
wall thickness shall be considered defects. Pipe with defects 
shall be given one or more of the following dispositions: 
12.2.1 The defect shall be removed by grinding, provided 
that the remaining wall thickness is within specified limits, 
12.2.2 Type S pipe and the parent metal of Type E pipe, 
except within ½ in. [13 mm] of the fusion line of the 
electric-resistance-weld seam, are permitted to be repaired in 
accordance with the welding provisions of 12.5. Repair weld­
ing of Type F pipe and the weld seam of Type E pipe is 
prohibited. 
12.2.3 The section of pipe containing the defect shall be cut 
off within the limits of requirement on length, or rejected. 
12.3 At the purchaser's discretion, pipe shall be subjected to 
rejection if surface defects repaired in accordance with 12.2 are 
not scattered, but appear over a large area in excess of what is 
considered a workmanlike finish. Disposition of such pipe shall 
be a matter of agreement between the manufacturer and the 
purchaser. 
12.4 For the removal of imperfections and defects by 
grinding, a smooth curved surface shall be maintained, and the 
wall thickness shall not be decreased below that permitted by 
this specification. It shall be permissible to reduce the outside 
diameter at the point of grinding by the amount so removed. 
12.5 Weld repair shall only be permitted with the approval 
of the purchaser and in accordance with Specification A530/ 
A530M. 
12.6 The finished pipe shall be reasonably straight. 
12.7 The pipe shall contain no dents greater than 10 % of 
the pipe diameter or ¼ in. [6 mm], whichever is smaller, 
146 
measured as the gap between the lowest point of the dent and 
a prolongation of the original contour of the pipe. Cold-formed 
dents deeper than 1/s in. [3 mm] shall be free of sharp-bottomed 
gouges; it shall be permissible to remove the gouges by 
grinding, provided that the remaining wall thickness is within 
specified limits. The length of the dent in any direction shall 
not exceed one half the specified outside diameter of the pipe. 
13. Number of Tests 
13.1 Except as required by 13.2, one of each of the tests 
specified in Section 7 shall be made on test specimens taken 
from one length of pipe from each lot of each pipe size. For 
continuous-welded pipe, each lot shall contain no more than 25 
tons [23 Mg] of pipe for pipe sizes NPS 1 ½ [DN 40] and 
smaller, and no more than 50 tons [ 45 Mg] of pipe for pipe 
sizes larger than NPS 1 ½ [DN 40]. For seamless and electric­
resistance-welded pipe, a lot shall contain no more than one 
heat, and at the option of the manufacturer shall contain no 
more than 500 lengths of pipe (as initially cut after the final 
pipe-forming operation, prior to any further cutting to the 
required ordered lengths) or 50 tons [45 Mg] of pipe. 
13.2 The number of flattening tests for electric-resistance­
welded pipe shall be in accordance with 7.3.3.2 or 7.3.3.3, 
whichever is applicable. 
13.3 Except as allowed by 9.2, each length of pipe shall be 
subjected to the hydrostatic test (see Section 8). 
14. Retests 
14.1 Except for flattening tests of electric-resistance-welded 
pipe, if the results of a mechanical test for a lot fail to conform 
to the applicable requirements specified in Section 7, the lot 
shall be rejected unless tests of additional pipe from the 
affected lot of double the number originally tested are subse­
quently made and each such test conforms to the specified 
requirements. Only one retest of any lot will be permitted. Any 
individual length of pipe that conforms to the test requirements 
is acceptable. Any individual length of pipe that does not 
conform to the test requirements may be resubmitted for test 
and will be considered acceptable if tests taken from each pipe 
end conform to the specified requirements. 
14.2 Electric-Resistance-Welded Pipe Produced in Single 
Lengths-If any flattening test result fails to conform to the 
requirements specified in 7.3.3, the affected single length shall 
be rejected unless the failed end is subsequently retested using 
the same weld orientation as the failed test and a satisfactory 
test result is obtained before the pipe's length is reduced by 
such testing to less than 80 % of its length after the initial 
cropping. 
14.3 Electric-Resistance-Welded Pipe Produced in Multiple 
Lengths-If any flattening test result fails to conform to the 
requirements specified in 7.3.3, the affected multiple length 
shall be rejected or flattening tests shall be made using a test 
specimen taken from each end of each individual length in the 
failed multiple length. For each pipe end, such tests shall be 
made with the weld alternately at 0° and 90° from the line of 
direction of force. Individual lengths are considered acceptable 
if the test results for both pipe ends conform to the specified 
requirements. 