|

i

SA-484/SA-484M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025
4.1.2 Dimensions, including shape or form with diameter or — the order acceptance, shall be treated as a specified element, oo
width and thickness as applicable, length, and prints or — with determination of chemical analysis and reporting of that
sketches as applicable, analysis. } :
4.1.3 Type or UNS designation, 6.1.5 The purchaser is permitted to make the requirements
4.1.4 ASTM specification designation and edition year if | for any element more stringent, that is, require higher mini- .
other than the latest edition, mums for elements having minimum requirements or ranges
4.1.5 Condition, with minimum requirements, or requiring lower maximums for ,
4.1.6 Finish, elements having specified maximums, or ranges with maxi-
4.1.7 Supplementary Requirements when invoked, mums. The purchaser is not permitted to make chemical ,
4.1.8 Whether bars are to be rolled as bars or cut from strip requirements less stringent.

; 6.1.6 Analysis limits shall be established for specific

or plate, when applicable,
ee elements rather than groups of elements, including but not :

4.1.9 Preparation for delivery, a

, limited to all others, rare earths, and balance, unless all

4.1.10 Marking requirements, elements in such a group are similar in technical effect and are
4.1.11 Surface preparation, for shapes, and associated in typical methods of chemical analysis. :
4.1.12 Special requirements. ] a
6.2. Product Analysis—When required, a product analysis

ee “Lobo Was ordering Preireaie . es sea e304 shall be determined in accordance with Test Methods, ;
1. . mm] round bar 0 04m]; € cack : . was :

Ot 530400: Specification AATOIASTOM: annealed. centerless round plus Practices, and Terminology A751. The chemical composition :
optional requirements, such as special marking instructions. es determined shall conform to the tolerances shown in Table
5. Materials and Manufacture 6.2.1 When the product requirement includes a ratio re-
| quirement that is the quotient of two, or more, elements, the :

5.1 The material shall be made by any process. minimum required ratio determined from product analysis shall |
5.2 The material shall be furnished in one of the conditions be at least 0.90x the minimum in the product specification.
detailed in the applicable product specification, for example, 6.3 The steel shall not contain an unspecified element for
hot-worked; hot-worked and annealed; hot-worked, annealed, the ordered grade to the extent that the steel conforms to the
and cold-worked; or hot-worked, annealed, and heat-treated. requirements of another grade in the referencing product
5.3 The material shall be furnished in one of the finishes as Specification, and any of the product specifications within the ,
detailed in Section 8 or further described in the applicable | scope of this general requirements specification, for which that
product specification, for example, hot-finished or cold- element has a specified minimum.
finished. |
7. Heat Treatment ,

6. Chemical Composition 7.1 The heat treatments shown in this section are to be |
6.1 Heat or Cast Analysis—The chemical analysis of each followed unless otherwise specified in the applicable product
heat shall be determined in accordance with the applicable Specification.
materials specification and Test Methods, Practices, and Ter- = 7.2 Austenitic Grades:
minology A751. 7.2.1 Except for strain-hardened grades (see 7.2.4), hot-
6.1.1 The analysis of each heat shall be made from a test _—_ rolled grades (see 7.2.5), and UNS N08020 (see 7.2.6), all
sample taken during the pouring of the melt or from the austenitic stainless steels shall be furnished in the solution
in-process product later in the manufacturing flow. annealed condition in accordance with Table 2, with subse-
6.1.2 The heat analysis shall conform to the chemical quent light cold drawing for cold finishing and straightening f
requirements for each of the specified elements for the grade _ permitted. : |
ordered, as listed in the applicable product specification. 7.2.2. Except as indicated in Table 2, the austenitic grades i
6.1.3 All commercial metals contain small amounts of shall be annealed, at the option of the manufacturer, by a i |
elements other than those which are specified. It is neither separate annealing treatment or by process annealing. |
practical nor necessary to specify limits for unspecified ele- 7.2.2.1 The separate annealing treatment shall consist of |
ments that can be present. The producer is permitted to analyze —_ heating the material to the minimum annealing temperature for :
for unspecified elements and is permitted to report such the grade as listed in Table 2, holding for a sufficient time to |
analyses. The presence of an unspecified element and the permit grain boundary carbides to enter into solution, and |
reporting of an analysis for that element shall not bea basis for cooling rapidly enough to prevent unacceptable grain boundary :
rejection unless the presence of that element cause the loss of carbide precipitation. Except as indicated in Table 2, austenitic :
a property typically expected for that metal, for the type and stainless steels solution annealed by a separate annealing :
quality ordered. treatment shall be capable of meeting the requirements of
6.1.4 The purchaser is permitted to require in the purchase Practice E of Practices A262. Practice E of Practices A262 is
order a maximum limit for an individual element not specified | not required unless specified on the purchase order. |
in the product specification. Such a requirement for an element 7.2.2.2 Process annealing shall consist of completing hot . /
not listed in the product specification, when acknowledged in working above the minimum annealing temperature required | |
816 |
