ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-781/SA-781M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details 
of the supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
The specified tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
S1. Magnetic Particle Examination 
S1.1 Castings shall be examined for surface and near 
surface discontinuities by magnetic particle examination. 
The examination shall be in accordance with Guide E 709. 
Extent of examination and the basis for acceptance shall 
be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S2. Radiographic Examination 
S2.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects 
by means of X rays or gamma rays. The procedure shall 
be in accordance with Guide E 94, and types and degrees 
of discontinuities considered shall be judged by Reference 
Radio graphs E 446, E 186, or E 280. Extent of examination 
and basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
S3. Liquid Penetrant Examination 
S3.1 Castings shall be examined for surface discontinu­
ities by means of liquid penetrant examination. The exami­
nation shall be in accordance with Test Method E 165. 
Areas to be inspected, methods and types of liquid pene­
trants to be used, developing procedure, and basis for 
acceptance shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. 
S4. Ultrasonic Examination 
S4.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects 
by means of ultrasonic examination. The examination pro­
cedure shall be in accordance with Practice 
A 609 I A 609M. Extent of examination, methods of testing, 
and basis for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
S5. Examination of Weld Preparation 
S5.1 Magnetic particle or liquid penetrant examination 
of cavities prepared for welding shall be performed to 
verify removal of those discontinuities found unacceptable 
by the examination method specified for the casting. Unless 
other degrees of shrinkage or types of discontinuities found 
in the cavities are specified, Type II, Internal Shrinkage, 
of Reference Photographs E 125, of Degree 2 in sections 
up to 2 in. [50.8 mm] thick and of Degree 3 in sections 
over 2 in. thick shall be acceptable. 
S6. Certification 
S6.1 The manufacturer's certification shall be furnished 
to the purchaser stating that the material was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with the mate­
rial specification (including year date) and was found to 
meet the requirements. 
S6.2 A manufacturer's certification printed from or 
used in electronic form from an electronic data interchange 
(EDI) transmission shall be regarded as having the same 
validity as a counterpart printed in the certifier's facility 
provided it conforms to any existing EDI agreement 
between the purchaser and the supplier. 
S7. Prior Approval of Major Weld Repairs 
S7.1 Major weld repairs as defined and agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and purchaser shall be subject 
to the prior approval of the purchaser. 
S8. Marking 
S8.1 The manufacturer's name or identification mark 
and the pattern number shall be cast or stamped on all 
castings. When further specified, the heat numbers or serial 
numbers shall be marked on individual castings. 
S9. Charpy Impact Test 
S9.1 Charpy impact test properties shall be determined 
by testing a set of three Charpy V-notch specimens made 
from each heat at a test temperature agreed upon by the 
manufacturer and purchaser. The material from which the 
test specimens are prepared shall be cast in accordance with 
6.2. The acceptance requirements shall be either energy 
absorbed, lateral expansion, or percent shear area, or all 
three, and shall be that agreed upon between the manufac­
turer and purchaser. Test specimens shall be prepared as 
Type A and tested in accordance with Test Methods and 
Definitions A 370. 
S9.2 Absorbed Energy-Average energy value of three 
specimens shall be not less than specified, with not more 
1259 