ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-988/SA-988M 
6.1.2 When required by the purchaser, the chemical com­
position of a sample from one part from each lot of parts shall 
be determined by the manufacturer. The composition of the 
sample shall conform to the chemical requirements prescribed 
in Table 1. 
6.2 Addition of lead, selenium, or other unspecified ele­
ments for the purpose of improving the machinability of the 
compact shall not be permitted. 
6.3 The steel shall not contain an unspecified element other 
than nitrogen, for the ordered grade, to the extent that the steel 
conforms to the requirements of another grade for which that 
element is a specified element having a required minimum 
content. 
7. Heat Treatment 
7.1 Except as provided in 7.2, the final heat treatment of all 
parts shall be in compliance with the requirements of Table 2. 
After hot isostatic-pressing and prior to final heat treatment, the 
compacts are permitted to be annealed, at the option of the 
producer, either as a part of the consolidation process or as a 
separate operation. 
7.2 When agreed upon by the purchaser, liquid quenching 
may be applied to the martensitic stainless steels in place of the 
furnace cool or air cool specified in Table 2, provided that such 
quenching is followed by tempering in the temperature ranges 
as required in Table 2. Martensitic parts that are liquid 
quenched and tempered shall be marked "QT." 
7.3 The final heat treatment shall be performed before or 
after machining at the option of the producer. 
7.4 See Section S16 if a particular heat treatment method is 
specified by the purchaser in the purchase order. 
8. Structural Integrity Requirements 
8.1 Microporosity-The parts shall be free of microporosity 
as demonstrated by measurement of density as provided in 
8.1.1 or by microstructural examination as provided in 8.1.2. 
8.1.1 Density Measurement: 
8 .1.1.1 The density measurement shall be used for accep­
tance of material but not for rejection of material. The 
measured density for each production lot shall exceed 99 % of 
the density typical of that grade when wrought and in the same 
heat treated condition as the sample. A production lot that fails 
to meet this acceptance criterion is permitted to be tested at the 
option of the producer, for microporosity in accordance with 
the microstructural examination as provided in 8.1.2. 
8.1.1.2 Density shall be determined for one sample from 
each production lot by measuring the difference in mass of the 
sample when weighed in air and when weighed in water and 
multiplying this difference by the density of water (Archi­
mede' s principle). The equipment used shall be capable of 
determining density within ±0.004 lb/in. 3 [0.10 g/cm 3 ]. 
Alternatively, at the option of the producer, it is permitted to 
use Test Method B311 to determine the density. 
8.1.1.3 At the option of the producer, the density shall be 
compared to the room temperature density typical of wrought 
steels of the same class of grades, 0.28 lb/in.3 [7.8 g/cm 3 ] for 
age-hardening, martensitic, and austenitic-ferritic grades, and 
0.29 lb/in.3 [8.0 g/cm 3 ] for austenitic grades, or to the density 
of a wrought reference sample of the same grade heat treated 
in accordance with the requirements of Table 2 (See Note 2). 
Norn 2-The actual density of stainless steel varies slightly witl1 
composition and heat treatment. For this reason, small differences in the 
measured density from the typical density for a class of grades may be the 
result of differences in alloy content, heat treatment, or microporosity. 
When density values are measured that are less than the density typical of 
a class of grades, it is appropriate to examine the sample for microporosity 
by the more specific metallographic examination procedures. 
8.1.2 Microstructural Examination: 
8.1.2.1 The microstructure shall be examined at 20-50x, 
100-200x, and 1000-2000x and shall be reasonably uniform 
and shall be free of voids, laps, cracks, and porosity. 
8.1.2.2 One sample from each production lot shall be 
examined. The sample shall be taken after hot-isostatic press­
ing or after final heat treatment. The sample shall be taken from 
the component, stem, protrusion, or test part made from a 
single powder blend consolidated in the same hot isostatic 
press using the same pressure, temperature, and time param­
eters and heat-treated in the same final heat-treatment charge. 
The microstructure shall meet the requirements of 8.1.2.1. 
8.1.2.3 If the sample fails to meet the requirements for 
acceptance, each part in the lot is permitted to be retested and 
those that pass shall be accepted. 
8.2 Hydrostatic Tests-After they have been machined, 
pressure-containing parts shall be tested to the hydrostatic shell 
test pressures prescribed in ASME B16.5 for the applicable 
steel rating for which the part is designed and shall show no 
leaks. Parts ordered under these specifications for working 
pressures other than those listed in the ASME B16.5 ratings 
shall be tested to such pressures as may be agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
8.2.l No hydrostatic test is required for weld neck or other 
flanges. 
8.2.2 The compact manufacturer is not required to perfmm 
pressure tests on rough parts that are to be finish machined by 
others. The fabricator of the finished part is not required to 
pressure test parts that are designed to be pressure containing 
only after assembly by welding into a larger structure. The 
manufacturer of the compacts, however, shall be responsible, 
as required in 16.1 for the satisfactory performance of the parts 
under the final test required in 8.2. 
8.3 Ultrasonic Tests-When specified in the order, 
austenitic-ferritic stainless steel parts made from S32505 shall 
be ultrasonic tested according to the procedures described in 
Section S7. 
9. Mechanical Properties 
9 .1 The mate1ial shall conform to the requirements for 
mechanical properties prescribed in Table 3 at room tempera­
ture. 
9.2 Sample shall be from the component, stem, protrusion, 
or test part made from a single powder blend consolidated in 
the same hot isostatic press using the same pressure, 
temperature, and time parameters and heat-treated in the same 
final heat-treatment charge. If repair welding is required (See 
1461 