SA-351/SA-351M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Castings, Austenitic, for Pressure-Containing Parts 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers austenitic steel castings for 
valves, flanges, fittings, and other pressure-containing parts 
(Note 1). 
Norn 1-Carbon steel castings for pressure-containing parts are cov­
ered by Specification A216/A216M, low-alloy steel castings by Specifi­
cation A217/A217M, and duplex stainless steel castings by Specification 
A995! A995M. 
1.2 A number of grades of austenitic steel castings are 
included in this specification. Since these grades possess 
varying degrees of suitability for service at high temperatures 
or in corrosive environments, it is the responsibility of the 
purchaser to determine which grade shall be furnished. Selec­
tion will depend on design and service conditions, mechanical 
properties, and high-temperature or corrosion-resistant 
characteristics, or both. 
1.2.1 Because of thermal instability, Grades CE20N, CF3A, 
CF3MA, and CF8A are not recommended for service at 
temperatures above 800 °F [425 °C). 
1.3 Supplementary requirements of an optional nature are 
provided for use at the option of the purchaser. The Supple­
mentary requirements shall apply only when specified indi­
vidually by the purchaser in the purchase order or contract. 
1.4 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. 
540 
1.4.1 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound 
units and in SI units; however, unless the purchase order or 
contract specifies the applicable M-specification designation 
(SI units), the inch-pound units shall apply. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets or parentheses. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A216/A216M Specification for Steel Castings, Carbon, Suit­
able for Fusion Welding, for High-Temperature Service 
A217 / A217M Specification for Steel Castings, Martensitic 
Stainless and Alloy, for PressureaContaining Parts, Suit­
able for High-Temperature Service 
A488/A488M Practice for Steel Castings, Welding, Qualifi­
cations of Procedures and Personnel 
A 703/ A 703M Specification for Steel Castings, General 
Requirements, for Pressure-Containing Parts 
A985/ A985M Specification for Steel Investment Castings 
General Requirements, for Pressure-Containing Parts 
A995/ A995M Specification for Castings, Austenitic-Ferritic 
(Duplex) Stainless Steel, for Pressure-Containing Parts 
2.2 Manufacturers Standardization Society of the Valve and 
Fittings Industry Standard: 
SP-55 Quality Standard for Steel Castings for Valves, 
Flanges, and Fittings and Other Components (Visual 
Method) 