SA-36/SA-36M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Carbon Structural Steel 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers carbon steel shapes, plates, 
and bars of structural quality for use in riveted, bolted, or 
welded construction of bridges and buildings, and for general 
structural purposes. 
1.2 Supplementary requirements are provided for use where 
additional testing or additional restrictions are required by the 
purchaser. Such requirements apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. 
1.3 When the steel is to be welded, a welding procedure 
suitable for the grade of steel and intended use or service is to 
be utilized. See Appendix X3 of Specification A6/A6M for 
information on weldability. 
1.4 The text of this specification contains notes or footnotes, 
or both, that provide explanatory material. Such notes and 
footnotes, excluding those in tables and figures, do not contain 
any mandatory requirements. 
1.5 For structural products produced from coil and fur­
nished without heat treatment or with stress relieving only, the 
additional requirements, including additional testing require­
ments and the reporting of additional test results, of Specifi­
cation A6/ A6M apply. 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system is to 
be used independently of the other, without combining values 
in any way. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A6/ A6M Specification for General Requirements for Rolled 
Structural Steel Bars, Plates, Shapes, and Sheet Piling 
A27 / A27M Specification for Steel Castings, Carbon, for 
General Application 
A307 Specification for Carbon Steel Bolts, Studs, and 
Threaded Rod 60 000 PSI Tensile Strength 
A500 Specification for Cold-Formed Welded and Seamless 
Carbon Steel Structural Tubing in Rounds and Shapes 
A501 Specification for Hot-Formed Welded and Seamless 
Carbon Steel Structural Tubing 
A502 Specification for Rivets, Steel, Structural 
126 
A563 Specification for Carbon and Alloy Steel Nuts 
A563M Specification for Carbon and Alloy Steel Nuts (Met-
ric) 
A668/ A668M Specification for Steel Forgings, Carbon and 
Alloy, for General Industrial Use 
A1011/A1011M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
Al018/A1018M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Heavy-Thickness Coils, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, 
Commercial, Drawing, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
F568M Specification for Carbon and Alloy Steel Externally 
Threaded Metric Fasteners (Metric) (Withdrawn 2012) 
F1554 Specification for Anchor Bolts, Steel, 36, 55, and 
105-ksi Yield Strength 