ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
100°F (50°C) above the maximum intended service tem­
perature for which allowable stresses for the base mate­
rial are requested. 
(-c) at a minimum of four stresses calculated to 
produce rupture times of at least 1,000 hr and with one 
test exceeding 10,000 hr. 
(-d) the test temperature; stress; rupture time; 
specimen size and configuration, including weld location; 
and failure location (base metal, weld metal, or heat af­
fected zone), for all test samples. 
(-e] the creep-rupture data shall be compared to 
the scatter bands of data for the base metal. For the eva­
luation of creep strength enhanced ferritic (CSEF) steels, a 
preference shall be placed on cross-weld test specimens 
with large cross-sectional area or vessel tests or other 
feature-type tests. The extent of testing described in 
IV-1500 may be reduced in lieu of feature-type tests. 
(-f] post-test metallographic evaluation shall be 
performed on at least three actual test specimens includ­
ing the longest-duration test samples at the time of sub­
mission. The assessment shall be limited to a test 
temperature not higher than the maximum intended use 
temperature and not lower than the temperature transi­
tion to time-dependent behavior. The assessment shall in­
clude macro-images to document the overall appearance 
(oxidation, necking, intergranular fracture, etc.), as well 
as micro-images to document the nature and extent of ca­
vitation damage. 
IV-1600 LONG-TERM PROPERTIES 
STABILITY 
For new materials, and particularly for those whose 
creep-rupture properties are affected by heat treatment 
or deformation processes or a combination of these, it 
is important to know the structural stability characteris­
tics and the degree of retention of properties with long­
term exposure at temperature. Where particular tem­
perature ranges of service exposure or fabrication heat 
treatment, cooling rates, and combination of mechanical 
working and thermal treatments cause significant 
changes in the microstructure on which the 
creep-rupture properties depend, these shall be brought 
to the attention of the BPV Committee. 
IV-1700 REQUESTS FOR ADDITIONAL DATA 
The Committee may request additional data, including 
data on properties or material behavior not explicitly 
treated in the Construction Code for which approval is 
desired. 
IV-1800 NEW MATERIALS CHECKLIST 
To assist inquirers desiring Code coverage for new ma­
terials, or extending coverage of existing materials, the 
Committee has developed the following checklist of items 
that ought to be addressed in each inquiry. While taking 
into account the intended application of the product, the 
Committee may require specific information from the 
inquirer, as shown above for certain material 
characteristics. 
(a) Has a qualified inquirer request been provided? 
(b J Has a request either for revision to existing Code re­
quirements or for a Code Case been defined? 
(c) Has a letter to ASTM or AWS been submitted re­
questing coverage of the new material in a specification? 
Alternatively, is this material already covered by a speci­
fication issued by a recognized national or international 
organization and has an English language version been 
provided? 
( d} Has the Construction Code and, if applicable, a Divi­
sion, Subsection, or Part been identified? 
(e] Have product forms, size range, and the applicable 
specification( s) been defined? 
(f) Has the range (maximum/minimum) of tempera­
ture application been defined? 
(g) Has the chemistry been submitted and the related 
requirements been addressed? 
(h) Have the metallurgical structure and heat treatment 
requirements been submitted? 
(i) Have mechanical property data been submitted (ul­
timate tensile strength, yield strength, reduction of area, 
and elongation at 100°F (50°C) intervals, from room tem­
perature to 100°F (50°C) above the maximum intended 
use temperature, for three heats of appropriate product 
forms and sizes? 
(j) if requested temperatures of coverage are above 
those at which time-dependent properties begin to gov­
ern design values, have appropriate time-dependent 
property data for base metal and weldments been 
submitted? 
(k) if higher allowable stresses for material to be used 
below room temperature are requested, have appropriate 
mechanical property data below room temperature been 
submitted? 
(I) Have toughness considerations required by the 
Construction Code been defined and have appropriate 
data been submitted? 
(m) Have stress-strain curves been submitted for the 
establishment of External Pressure Charts? 
(n) if cyclic service considerations are required by the 
requested Construction Code application, have appropri­
ate fatigue data been submitted? 
( o) Have physical properties data ( coefficient of ther­
mal expansion, thermal conductivity and diffusivity, mod­
ulus of elasticity, Poisson's ratio, and density) been 
submitted? 
1633 