SA-231/SA-231M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
11. Inspection 
11.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or pur­
chase order, the manufacturer is responsible for the per­
formance of all inspection and test requirements specified 
in this specification. Except as otherwise specified in the 
contract or purchase order, the manufacturer may use his 
own or any other suitable facilities for the performance of 
the inspection and test requirements unless disapproved by 
the purchaser at the time the order is placed. The purchaser 
shall have the right to perform any of the inspections and 
tests set forth in this specification when such inspections 
and tests are deemed necessary to assure that the material 
conforms to prescribed requirements. 
12. Rejection and Rehearing 
12.1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection based 
on tests made in accordance with this specification shall 
be reported to the manufacturer as soon as possible so that 
an investigation may be initiated. 
12.2 The material must be adequately protected and 
correctly identified in order that the manufacturer may 
make a proper investigation. 
13. Certification 
13.1 A manufacturer's or supplier's certification shall 
be furnished to the purchaser that the material was manu­
factured, sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with 
this specification and has been found to meet the require­
ments. A report of the test results shall be furnished. 
13.2 The certification shall include the specification 
number, year date of issue, and revision letter, if any. 
14. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
14.1 The coil mass, dimensions, and the method of 
packaging shall be as agreed upon between the manufac­
turer and purchaser. 
14.2 The size of the wire, purchaser's order number, 
ASTM Specification number, heat number, and name or 
mark of the manufacturer shall be marked on a tag securely 
attached to each coil of wire. 
14.3 Unless otherwise specified in the purchaser's 
order, packing, marking, and loading for shipments shall 
be in accordance with those procedures recommended by 
Practices A 700. 
318 
14.4 For Government Procurement: 
14.4.1 Packaging, packing, and marking of material 
for military procurement shall be in accordance with the 
requirements of MIL-STD-163, Level A, Level C, or com­
mercial as specified in the contract or purchase order. Mark­
ing for shipment of material for civil agencies shall be in 
accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123. 
14.5 Bar Coding - In addition to the previously-stated 
identification requirements, bar coding is acceptable as a 
supplementary identification method. Bar coding should 
be consistent with AIAG B-5 02.00, Primary Metals Identi­
fication Tag Application. The bar code may be applied to 
a substantially affixed tag. 
15. Keywords 
15.1 alloy; chromium-vanadium; spring; wire 