SA-770/SA-770M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Through-Thickness Tension Testing of Steel Plates for 
Special Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers the procedures and accep­
tance standards for the determination of reduction of area using 
a tension test specimen whose axis is perpendicular to the 
rolled surfaces of steel plates 1 in. [25 mm] and greater in 
thickness. The principal purpose of the testing is to provide a 
measure of the resistance of a steel plate to lamellar tearing. 
(See Appendix XL) 
1.2 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded as standard. Within the text, the SI units are 
shown in brackets. The values stated in each system are not 
exact equivalents; therefore, each system must be used inde­
pendently of the other. Combining values from the two systems 
may result in nonconformance with the specification. 
1.3 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound and 
SI unit~. However, unless the order specifies the applicable 
"M" specification designation (SI units), the material shall be 
furnished to inch-pound units. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.l ASTM Standards: 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 The inquiry and order shall include the following, if 
required: 
3.1.1 Supplementary requirements that are available to meet 
end use requirements (see SI through S5). 
3.1.2 Special requirements agreed upon between the manu­
facturer and the purchaser. 
4. Tension Tests 
4.1 Number of Tests: 
4.1.l Two tests shall be required from each plate-as-rolled, 
except for plates subjected to heat treatment by quenching and 
tempering. 1\vo tests shall be required from each quenched­
and-tempered plate. The tests shall be representative of the 
plate in its final condition. 
4.1.2 When plates are furnished by the manufacturer in an 
unheat-treated condition and qualified by heat-treated speci­
mens (including normalized, normalized and tempered, and 
quenched and tempered), two tests shall be required from each 
plate-as-rolled. 
NoTE 1-The term "plate-as-rolled" refers to the unit plate rolled from 
a slab or directly from an ingot. It does not refer to the condition of the 
plate. 
4.2 Location of Test Coupons-Take one test coupon at each 
end of each plate as defined in 4.1. Take the test coupons from 
the center of the plate width. 
4.3 Orientation of Test Specimens-The longitudinal axis of 
the reduced section of the test specimens shall be perpendicular 
to the rolled surface of the plate. 
4.4 Preparation of Test Specimens: 
4.4.1 Welded Prolongations-When required, join welded 
prolongations to the surface(s) of the plate being tested. The 
joining method used shall be one which results in a minimal 
heat-affected zone in the portion of the plate to be tested. 
Shielded metal arc, friction, stud, or electron-beam welding 
methods have proven to be suitable. 
4.4.2 Standard Test Specimens: 
4.4.2.1 Three types of standard round tension test specimens 
are shown in Fig. 1 and Table 1. For Types 1 and 2 specimens, 
locate the center of the length of the reduced section at the 
approximate mid-point of the plate thickness. For Type 3 
specimens, locate the weld fusion line of one plate surface 
within ¼ in. [6 mm] of one end of the reduced section. 
4.4.2.2 For plates from 1 in. [25 mm] to 1 ¼ in. [32 mm] 
inclusive in thickness, use either the 0.350-in. [8.75-mm] Type 
1 specimen or the 0.500-in. [12.5-mm] Type 2 specimen. 
1246 