SA-53/SA-53M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
forming or installation, or both, conditions involved. Disposi­
tion shall be a matter for agreement. 
20. Certification 
20.1 The manufacturer or supplier shall, upon request, 
furnish to the purchaser a certificate of compliance stating that 
the material has been manufactured, sampled, tested, and 
inspected in accordance with this specification (including 
year-date), and has been found to meet the requirements. 
20.2 Test Report-For Types E and S, the manufacturer or 
supplier shall furnish to the purchaser a chemical analysis 
report for the elements given in Table 1. 
20.3 EDI-A certificate of compliance or test report printed 
from, or used in, electronic form from an electroni~ data 
interchange (EDI) transmission shall be regarded as havmg the 
same validity as a counterpart printed in the certifier's facility. 
The use and format of the EDI document are subject to 
agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer or 
supplier. 
NoJE 7-EDI is the computer to computer exc;hange of business 
information in a standard format such as ANSI ASC X12. 
20.4 Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the orga­
nization submitting the certificate of compliance or test report 
is responsible for its content. 
21. Product Marking 
21.1 Except as allowed by 21.5 and 21.6, each length of 
pipe shall be legibly marked in the following sequence to 
show: 
21.1.1 Manufacturer's name or mark, 
21.1.2 Specification number (year-date not required), 
Norn 8-Pipe that complies with m~ltipl~ compatible spe~ifi.ca~ons 
may be marked with the appropriate designation for each specification. 
21.1.3 Size (NPS and weight class, schedule number, or 
specified wall thickness; or specified outside diameter and 
specified wall thickness), 
21.1.4 Grade (A or B), 
21.1.5 Type of pipe (F, E, or S), 
21.1.6 Test pressure, seamless pipe only (if applicable, in 
accordance with Table 4), 
21.1.7 Nondestructive electric test, seamless pipe only (if 
applicable, in accordance with Table 4), 
21.2 Unless another marking format is specified in the 
purchase order, length shall be marked in feet and tenths o~ a 
foot or metres to two decimal places, dependent upon the umts 
to ;hich the pipe was ordered. The location of such marking 
shall be at the option of the manufacturer. 
TABLE 4 Marking of Seamless Pipe 
Hydro NOE Marking 
Yes No Test pressure 
No Yes NOE 
Yes Yes Test Pressure/NOE 
21.3 Heat number, lot number, run number, or a combina­
tion thereof shall be marked at the option of the manufacturer, 
unless specific marking is specified in the purchase order; The 
location of such marking shall be at the option of the 
manufacturer. 
21.4 Any additional information desired by the manufac­
turer or specified in the purchase order. 
21.5 For pipe NPS 1 ½ [DN 40] and smaller that is bundled, 
it shall be permissible to mark the required information on a tag 
securely attached to each bundle. 
21.6 If pipe sections are cut into shorter lengths by a 
processor for resale as pipe, the processor shall transfer the 
complete identification, including the name or brand of the 
manufacturer, to each unmarked cut length, or to metal tags 
securely attached to unmarked pipe bundled in accordance with 
the requirements of 21.5. The same material designation shall 
be included with the information transferred, and the proces­
sor's name, trademark, or brand shall be added. 
148 
21.7 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 21.1, 
21.5, and 21.6, bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary 
identification method. It is recommended that bar coding be 
consistent with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) 
standard prepared by the Primary Metals Subcommittee of the 
AIAG Bar Code Project Team. 
22. Government Procurement 
22.1 If specified in the contract, the pipe shall be preserved, 
packaged, and packed in accordance with the require~ents ?f 
MIL-STD-163. The applicable levels shall be as specified m 
the contract. Marking for shipment of such pipe shall be in 
accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123 for civil agencies and 
MIL-STD-129 or Fed. Std. No. 183 if continuous marking is 
required, for military agencies. 
22.2 Inspection-Unless otherwise specified in the contract, 
the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all 
inspection and test requirements specified herein. Except as 
otherwise specified in the contract, the manufacturer shall use 
its own or any other suitable facilities for performing the 
inspection and test requirements specified herein, unless oth­
erwise disapproved by the purchaser in the contract or purchase 
order. The purchaser shall have the right to perform any of the 
inspections and tests set forth in this specification where 
deemed necessary to ensure that the pipe conforms to the 
specified requirements. 
23. Packaging and Package Marking 
23.1 If specified in the purchase order, packaging, marking, 
and loading for shipment shall be in accordance with those 
procedures recommended by Practices A700. 
24. Keywords 
24.1 black steel pipe; seamless steel pipe; steel pipe; welded 
steel pipe; zinc coated steel pipe 