SA-960 /SA-960M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
S78. Requirements for Carbon Steel Products for Concen­
trated Hydrofluoric Acid Service 
S78.l The maximum carbon equivalent based on heat 
analysis shall be as follows: 
Maximum section thickness less than or equal 
to 1 in. 
Maximum section thickness greater than 1 in. 
CE maximum = 0.43 
CE maximum = 0.45 
S78.2 Determine the carbon equivalent (CE) as follows: 
CE = C + Mn/6 + (Cr + Mo + V)/5 + (Ni + Cu)/15 
S78.3 Vanadium and Niobium maximum content based on 
heat analysis shall be: 
Maximum Vanadium = 0.02 wt % 
Maximum Niobium = 0.02 wt % 
Maximum Vanadium plus Niobium = 0.03 wt % 
(Note Niobium = Columbium) 
S78.4 The maximum composition based on heat analysis of 
Ni+ Cu shall be 0.15 wt%. 
S78.5 The minimum C content based on heat analysis shall 
be 0.18 wt%. The maximum C content shall be as specified in 
the appropriate material specification. 
S78.6 Repair welds shall not be made with E60XX elec­
trodes. Use of E70XX electrodes is recommended and the 
resulting weld chemistry should meet the same chemistry 
criteria as the base metal as listed above. 
S78. 7 In addition to the requirements of product marking of 
the specification, an "HF" stamp or marking shall be provided 
on each component to identify that component complies with 
this supplementary requirement. 
S79 Pressure Equipment Directive-Mechanical Testing 
S79.1 Charpy impact testing shall be done at the lowest 
scheduled operating temperature, but not higher than 68 °F [20 
oc]. 
S79.2 The frequency of impact testing shall be the same as 
that specified in the product specification for the tension test, 
with three individual Charpy test specimens for each required 
tension test. 
S79.3 The minimum impact absorption energy for the 
Charpy test specimen shall be at least 20 ft-lb [27 J]. 
S79.4 The minimum elongation in the tension test shall be 
measured on a gauge length of five times the diameter of the 
test specimen, and shall not be less than 14 %. 
S79.5 Impact and tension test results shall be included in the 
product certification. 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al.I New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
Al.LI Application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
Al.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, shall be furnished. 
Al.1.4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.5 The application shall state whether the new grade is 
covered by patent. 
1398 