ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
a ring cut from a tube, usually not less than 4 in. (100 mm) long 
and consists of having a flange turned over at right angles to the 
body of the tube to the width required by the applicable 
material specifications. The flaring tool and die block shown in 
Fig. A2.11 are recommended for use in making this test. 
A2.5. I.5 Flaring Test-For certain types of pressure tubes, 
an alternate to the flange test is made. This test consists of 
driving a tapered mandrel having a slope of 1 in 10 as shown 
in Fig. A2.12 (a) or a 60° included angle as shown in Fig. 
A2.12 (b) into a section cut from the tube, approximately 4 in. 
(100 mm) in length, and thus expanding the specimen until the 
inside diameter has been increased to the extent required by the 
applicable material specifications. 
A2.5.l.6 Bend Test-For pipe used for coiling in sizes 2 in. 
and under a bend test is made to determine its ductility and the 
soundness of weld. In this test a sufficient length of full-size 
pipe is bent cold through 90° around a cylindrical mandrel 
having a diameter 12 times the nominal diameter of the pipe. 
For close coiling, the pipe is bent cold through 180° around a 
mandrel having a diameter 8 times the nominal diameter of the 
pipe. 
t 
A B C 
-1 
~t.1· 
ll 4 4 
A = Outs. Diam. of Tube less 
B "'" Outs. Diam. of Tube less 
C = Outs. Diam. of Tube plus 
Flaring Tool 
A2.5.l.7 Transverse Guided Bend Test of Welds-This bend 
test is used to determine the ductility of fusion welds. The 
specimens used are approximately 1 ½ in. (38 mm) wide, at 
least 6 in. (152 mm) in length with the weld at the center, and 
are machined in accordance with Fig. A2.13 for face and root 
bend tests and in accordance with Fig. A2. l 4 for side bend 
tests. The dimensions of the plunger shall be as shown in Fig. 
A2.15 and the other dimensions of the bending jig shall be 
substantially as given in this same figure. A test shall consist of 
a face bend specimen and a root bend specimen or two side 
bend specimens. A face bend test requires bending with the 
inside surface of the pipe against the plunger; a root bend test 
requires bending with the outside surface of the pipe against 
the plunger; and a side bend test requires bending so that one 
of the side smfaces becomes the convex surface of the bend 
specimen. 
( 1) Failure of the bend test depends upon the appearance of 
cracks in the area of the bend, of the nature and extent 
described in the product specifications. 
A "° Outs. Diam, of Tube plus f' 
OieBlock 
Norn I-Metric equivalent: 1 in.= 25.4 mm. 
FIG. A2.11 Flaring Tool and Die Block for Flange Test 
617 