SA-320/SA-320M ASME BPVC.ILA-2025
Specification for —
Alloy-Steel and Stainless Steel Bolting for Low-Temperature
Service
1. Scope 1.3 The following referenced general requirements are in-
1.1 This specification covers alloy and stainless steel bolt- dispensable for application of this specification: Specification
ing materials and bolting components for pressure vessels, A962/A962M.
valves, flanges, and fittings for low-temperature service. See 1.4 Nuts for use with bolting are covered in Section 10 and _
Specification A962/A962M for the definition of bolting. The — the nut material shall be impact tested.
bars shall be hot-wrought and may be further | processed by 1.5 Supplementary Requirements are provided for use at the
centerless grinding or by cold drawing. Austenitic stainless Gp tion of the purchaser. The supplementary requirements shall
steel may be solution annealed or annealed and strain- a yn1y only when specified in the purchase order or contract.
hardened. When strain hardened austenitic stainless steel is | " a
ordered, the purchaser should take special care to ensure that 1.6 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units
Appendix X1 is thoroughly understood. and SI units; however, unless the purchase order or contract
. specifies the applicable M specification designation (SI) units,
1.2 Several grades are covered, including both ferritic and =the inch-pound units shall apply.
austenitic steels designated L7, B8, etc. Selection will depend ae .
on design, service conditions, mechanical properties, and 1.7 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units
low-temperature characteristics. The mechanical requirements 4 to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in
of Table 1 indicate the diameters for which the minimum ©@Ch system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each
mechanical properties apply to the various grades and classes,  SyStem shall be used independently of the other. Combining
and Table 2 stipulates the requirements for Charpy impact values from the two systems may result in non-conformance |
energy absorption. The manufacturer should determine that the With the standard.
material can conform to these requirements before parts are 1.8 This international standard was developed in accor-
manufactured. For example, when Grade L43 is specified to | dance with internationally recognized principles on standard-
meet the Table 2 impact energy values at -150 °F [-101 °C], _— ization established in the Decision on Principles for the
additional restrictions (such as procuring a steel with lower P = Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom-
and S contents than might normally be supplied) in the |= mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical :
chemical composition for AISI 4340 are likely to be required. Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee.
Notre 1—The committee formulating this specification has included 9. Referenced Documents
several grades of material that have been rather extensively used for the
present purpose. Other compositions will be considered for inclusion by 2.1 ASTM Standards:
the committee from time to time as the need becomes apparent. Users A194/A194M Specification for Carbon Steel, Alloy Steel,
should note that hardenability of some of the grades mentioned may and Stainless Steel Nuts for Bolts for High Pressure or
restrict the maximum size at which the required mechanical properties are . .
obtainable. High Temperature Service, or Both
A962/A962M Specification for Common Requirements for
Bolting Intended for Use at Any Temperature from Cryo- |
genic to the Creep Range —~
E566 Practice for Electromagnetic (Eddy Current/Magnetic
, Oo Induction) Sorting of Ferrous Metals
466
