SA-530/SA-530M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
General Requirements for Specialized Carbon and Alloy 
Steel Pipe 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers a group of requirements 
which, with the exceptions of Section 6.3, Section 14, Section 
21, and Section 22, are mandatory requirements to the ASTM 
pipe product specifications noted below unless the product 
specification specifies different requirements, in which case the 
requirement of the product specification shall prevail. 
1.2 Sections 6.3 or 21 are mandatory if the product speci­
fication has a requirement for product analysis or flattening 
tests. 
1.3 Section 22 is mandatory if the product specification has 
a hydrostatic test requirement without defining the test param­
eters. 
1.4 Section 14 is for infonnation only. 
1.5 In case of conflict between a requirement of the product 
specification and a requirement of this general requirement 
specification, only the requirement of the product specification 
need be satisfied. 
Title of Specification 
Seamless Carbon Steel Pipe for High-Temperature Service 
Metal-Arc-Welded Steel Pipe for Use With High-Pressure 
Transmission Systems 
Seamless Carbon Steel Pipe for Atmospheric and Lower 
Temperatures 
Centrifugally Cast Carbon Steel Pipe for High-Temperature 
Service 
Electric-Fusion-Welded Steel Pipe for Atmospheric and 
Lower Temperatures 
Electric-Fusion-Welded Steel Pipe for High-Pressure Service 
at Moderate Temperatures 
Carbon and Alloy Steel Pipe, Electric-Fusion-Welded for 
High-Pressure Service at High Temperatures 
ASTM DesignationA 
A106/A106M 
A381 
A524 
A660/A660M 
A671/A671M 
A672/A672M 
A691/A691M 
~---A These designatiQDS refer to the latest is_s_LLe_oUbe_respective.specifications. 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation (SI) of the product specification is specified in the 
order. 
Norn 1-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.7 This standard does not purport to address all of the 
safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is the 
responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appro­
priate safety, health, and environmental practices and deter­
mine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A106/A106M Specification for Seamless Carbon Steel Pipe 
for High-Temperature Service 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A381 Specification for Metal-Arc-Welded Carbon or High­
-------S-tren-gth--tow=-A.lioy·-steel~P1pe 1or-me-Witn-High~----
Pressure Transmission Systems 
A450/A450M Specification for General Requirements for 
Carbon and Low Alloy Steel Tubes 
A524 Specification for Seamless Carbon Steel Pipe for 
Atmospheric and Lower Temperatures 
894 