ASME BPVC.II.A--2025 SA-134/SA-134M 
15. Finish 
15.1 Repair by Welding-The welding of injurious defects 
in the pipe wall, provided their depth does not exceed one third 
the specified wall thickness, will be permitted. Defects in the 
welds, such as sweats or leaks, shall be repaired or the piece 
rejected at the option of the manufacturer. Repairs of this 
nature shall be made by completely removing the defect, 
cleaning the cavity, and then welding. 
15.2 All repaired pipe shall be tested hydrostatically in 
accordance with Section 11, unless otherwise specified in 11.3. 
16. Inspection 
16.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities 
to satisfy him that the material is being furnished in accordance 
with this specification. All tests and inspection shall be made at 
the place of manufacture prior to shipment and unless other­
wise specified, shall be so conducted as not to interfere 
unnecessarily with the operation of the works. If agreed upon, 
the manufacturer shall notify the purchaser in time so that he 
may have his inspector present to witness any part of the 
manufacture or tests that may be desired. The certification shall 
include reference to this specification and the pipe grade 
(ASTM plate specification designation and plate grade, when 
applicable). 
16.2 Certification-Upon request of the purchaser in the 
contract or order, a manufacturer's certification that the mate­
rial was manufactured and tested in accordance with this 
specification together with a report of the chemical and tensile 
tests shall be furnished. When hydrostatic test is omitted, the 
certificate shall include the letters "NH." 
17. Rejection 
17.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of this specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 
rejected, and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
17 .2 Pipe found in fabrication or in installation to be 
unsuitable for the intended use, under the scope and require­
ments of this specification, may be set aside and the manufac­
turer notified. Such pipe shall be subject to mutual investiga­
tion as to the nature and severity of the deficiency and the 
forming or installation, or both, conditions involved. Disposi­
tion shall be a matter of agreement between the purchaser and 
the manufacturer. 
18. Certification 
18.1 Upon request of the purchaser in the contract or order, 
a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufac­
tured and tested in accordance with this specification, including 
year date, together with a report of the chemical and tensile 
tests shall be furnished. The pipe grade shall be identified by 
the plate specification designation (year date not required) and 
the plate grade (where applicable). 
19. Product Marking 
19.1 Each section of pipe shall be marked with the manu­
facturer's distinguishing marking, this specification number, 
and the pipe grade. The marking need not include the year date 
of the pipe or plate specification. 
19.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 19.1, 
bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental identification 
method. The purchaser may specify in the order a specific bar 
coding system to be used. 
20. Protective Coating 
20.1 If agreed upon between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer, the pipe shall be given a protective coating of the 
kind and in the manner specified by the purchaser. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by 
the purchaser in the inquiry, contract, or order. Details of these supplementary requirements shall be 
agreed upon in writing by the manufacturer and purchaser. Supplementary requirements shall in no 
way negate any requirement of the specification itself. 
Sl. ASME Section III Construction 
S 1.1 Products furnished under this specification that are 
intended for application under the rules of the ASME Boiler 
and Pressure Vessel Code Section III, Class 3 Piping, shall be 
manufactured by holders of the appropriate ASME Certificate 
of Authorization and Certification Mark. The product is subject 
to all applicable requirements of Section III, Class 3 Piping, 
183 
including welding, heat treatment, nondestructive examination, 
authorized inspection at the point of manufacture, and appli­
cation of the Certification Mark. 
S 1.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report Form, 
signed by an Authorized Nuclear Inspector, and a material test 
report shall be furnished for each lot of pipe. 