SA-193/SA-193M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
S14. Marking Coated Bolting Components 
S14.1 Bolting components coated with zinc shall have ZN 
marked after the grade symbol. Bolting components coated 
with cadmium shall have CD marked after the grade symbol. 
Norn S14.1-As an example, the marking for zinc-coated B7 will now 
be B7ZN rather than B7*. 
SIS. Requirements for Service Temperature Exceeding 
1000°F 
S15.1 For bolting of Class 1 Grades B8, B8C, B8M, and 
B8T, to be used in service at temperatures exceeding 1000°F, 
the following shall apply: 
S15.1.1 The minimum carbon content shall be 0.04 %. 
S15.1.2 Carbide solution treatment shall be between 1900°F 
and 1950°F followed by quenching in water or rapid cooling 
by other means. 
APPENDIXES 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. STRAIN HARDENING OF AUSTENITIC STEELS 
Xl.1 Strain hardening is the increase in strength and hard­
ness that results from plastic deformation below the recrystal-. 
lization temperature (cold work). This effect is produced in 
austenitic stainless steels by reducing oversized bars or wire to 
the desired final size by cold drawing or other process. The 
degree of strain hardening achievable in any alloy is limited by 
its strain hardening characteristics. In addition, the amount of 
strain hardening that can be produced is further limited by the 
variables of the process, such as the total amount of cross­
section reduction, die angle, and bar size. In large diameter 
bars, for example, plastic deformation will occur principally in 
the outer regions of the bar so that the increased strength and 
hardness due to strain hardening is achieved predominantly 
near the surface of the bar. That is, the smaller the bar, the 
greater the penetration of strain hardening. 
Xl .2 Thus, the mechanical properties of a given strain 
hardened bolting component are dependent not just on the 
alloy, but also on the size of bar from which it is machined. The 
minimum bar size that can be used, however, is established by 
the configuration of the component so that the configuration 
can affect the strength of the componoent. 
Xl.3 For example, a stud of a particular alloy and size may 
be machined from a smaller diameter bar than a bolt of the 
same alloy and size because a larger diameter bar is required to 
accommodate the head of the bolt. The stud, therefore, is likely 
to be stronger than the same size bolt in a given alloy. 
X2. COATINGS AND APPLICATION LIMITS 
X2.1 Use of coated bolting components at temperatures 
above approximately one-half the melting point (Fahrenheit or 
Celsius) of the coating is not recommended unless consider­
ation is given to the potential for liquid and solid metal 
embrittlement, or both. The melting point of elemental zinc is 
approximately 780 °F [415 °C]. Therefore, application of 
246 
zinc-coated bolting components should be limited to tempera­
tures less than 390 °F [210 °C]. The melting point of cadmium 
is approximately 600 °F [320 °C]. Therefore, application of 
cadmium-coated bolting components should be limited to 
temperatures less than 300 °F [160 °C]. 