ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-20/SA-20M 
X2. VARIATION OF TENSILE PROPERTIES IN PLATE-AS-ROLLED 
X2.1 The tension requirements of this general requirements 
specification are intended only to characterize the tensile 
properties of a plate-as-rolled for determination of confor­
mance to the requirements of the applicable product specifica­
tions. Such testing procedures are not intended to define the 
upper or lower limits of tensile properties at all possible test 
locations within a plate-as-rolled. It is well known and docu­
mented that tensile properties vary within a plate-as-rolled or 
individual piece of steel as a function of chemical composition, 
processing, testing procedure, and other factors. It is, therefore, 
incumbent on designers and engineers to use sound engineer­
ing judgement when using tension test results shown on mill 
test reports. The testing procedures of this general require­
ments specification have been found to provide plate adequate 
for normal pressure vessel design criteria. 
X2.2 A survey of the variation to be expected in tensile 
properties obtained from plates and strnctural shapes was 
conducted by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI). 
The results of this survey are contained in a Contributions to 
the Metallurgy of Steel entitled "The Variation of Product 
Analysis and Tensile Properties-Carbon Steel Plates, and 
Wide Flange Shapes" (SU/18, SU/19, and SU/20), published in 
September 197 4. The data are presented in tables of probability 
that tensile properties at other than the official location may 
differ from those of the reported test location. 
X2.3 This general requirements specification contains no 
requirements applicable to product tension tests; conformance 
to the applicable product specification is determined on the 
basis of tests performed at the place of manufacture or 
processing prior to shipment, unless otherwise specified. 
X2.4 A Task Group of ASTM Subcommittee AOl.11 has 
determined, based on review of the AISI data (SU20), that the 
variation in tensile properties within a plate-as-rolled can be 
expressed as a function of specified requirements; one standard 
deviation equals approximately 3 % of required tensile 
strength, 5 % of required yield strength, and 3 percentage 
points of required elongation. 
X3. VARIATION IN CHARPY V-NOTCH TESTS 
X3. l A survey of the variation to be expected in Charpy 
V-Notch test results obtained from three common fine grain 
plate steels was conducted by the American Iron and Steel 
Institute (AISI). 7 The results of the survey are contained in a 
Contributions to the Metallurgy of Steel entitled, "The Varia­
tions of Charpy V-Notch Impact Test Properties in Steel 
Plates," (SU/24), published January 1979. The survey data 
consists of test values obtained from six locations in addition to 
the locations specified in 12.1.3 of this specification. The plate 
conditions tested involved as-rolled, normalized, and quench 
and tempered. Sufficient full-size specimens were taken from 
each sample so that three longitudinal and three transverse 
specimens could be broken at three test temperatures defined 
for each grade. The data is presented in tables of probability 
that impact properties at other than the official location which 
may differ from those of the reported test location. Additional 
data of the same type, but utilizing samples from thicker plates, 
was published by AISI as SU/27. 
X4. RADIUS FOR COLD BENDING 
X4. l Suggested minimum inside bend radii for cold form­
ing are referenced to group Designations A through F as 
defined in Table X4.1. The suggested radii listed in Table X4.2 
should be used as minimums in typical shop fabrication. 
Material that does not form satisfactorily when fabricated in 
accordance with Table X4.2 may be subject to rejection 
pending negotiation with the steel supplier. When tighter bends 
are required, the manufacturer should be consulted. 
X4.2 The bend radius and the radius of the male die should 
be as liberal as the finished part will permit. The width across 
the shoulders of the female die should be at least 8 times the 
plate thickness. Higher strength steels require larger die open­
ings. The surface of the dies in the area of radius should be 
smooth. 
99 
X4.3 Since cracks in cold bending commonly originate 
from the outside edges, shear burrs and gas cut edges should be 
removed by grinding. Sharp corners on edges and on punched 
or gas cut holes should be removed by chamfering or grinding 
to a radius. 
X4.4 If possible, parts should be formed such that the bend 
line is perpendicular to the direction of final rolling. If it is 
necessary to bend with the bend line parallel to the direction of 
final rolling, a more generous radius is suggested (11/2 times 
applicable value given in Table X4.2 for bend lines perpen­
dicular to the direction of rolling). 
X4.5 References 
X4.5.1 Both of these references are available from Ameri­
can Iron and Steel Institute (AISI): 