SA-962/SA-962M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
limited to, connectors, pins, restraining device components, 
shafts, bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and washers. 
3.1.4 bolting components-components, such as bolts, nuts, 
screws, studs, washers, connectors, and pins, are finished 
products which join, fasten, restrain, or position objects. 
3.1.5 bolting materials-starting materials used for the 
manufacture of bolting components, such as rolled or forged or 
threaded solid bars, blanks, wires, rods, or tubes or other 
hollow sections, that may be further processed by heat 
treatment, cold working, forging, threading, or machining. 
3.1.6 certifying organization-the company or association 
responsible for the conformance and marking of the product to 
the specification requirements. 
3.1.7 class-a term used to differentiate between different 
heat treatment conditions or strength levels, or both, often 
within the same grade but sometimes within the same family of 
materials. May also apply to work hardened condition or 
strength level, or both. 
3.1.8 grade-an alloy described individually and identified 
by its own designation in a table of chemical requirements 
within any specification. 
3.1.9 length, components subject to full size testing-that 
portion of the bolting component whose body diameter is 
approximately the same as the nominal thread size. 
3.1.10 lot-unless otherwise specified, a lot shall consist of: 
3.1.10.1 bolting, heat treated in batch type furnaces-all 
bolting material of the same heat or cast of material, condition, 
finish, and size subjected to the same heat treatment in one 
tempering charge and submitted for inspection at the same 
time. 
3.1.10.2 bolting, heat treated in continuous typefumaces­
all bolting material of the same heat or cast of material, 
condition, finish, and size heat treated without interruption in a 
continuous type furnace. 
3.1.10.3 bolting, non heat treated (strain hardened)-all 
bolting material of the same heat or cast of material, condition, 
reduction (cold work), finish, and size. 
3.1.10.4 components, machined from bolting material-all 
bolting components machined from the same lot of bolting 
material defined as outlined in either 3.1.10.1 or 3.1.10.2, 
above without any subsequent heat treatment or hot or cold 
forming. 
3.1.10.5 components, heat treated in batch typefumaces­
all bolting component items produced by any manufacturing 
process (such as rolling, forging, or machining) from the same 
heat or cast of material, of the same prior condition, the same 
size, and subjected to the same heat treatment in one tempering 
charge. 
3.1.10.6 components, heat treated in continuous type 
furnaces-all bolting component items produced by any manu­
facturing process (such as rolling, forging, or machining) from 
the same heat or cast of material, of the same prior condition, 
of the same size, and then subjected to the same heat treatment 
in a four hour period and in one tempering charge. 
3.1.10.7 components, non heat treated (strain hardened)­
all bolting components of the same heat or cast of material, 
condition, reduction (cold work), finish, and size. 
3.1.10.8 solution treat or treatment ( or solution 
annealing)-material shall be heated to a temperature that 
causes the carbides to go into solution and then quenched in 
water or rapidly cooled by other means to prevent re­
precipitation. 
3.1.10.9 stress relieving-material shall be uniformly heated 
to the selected stress relieving temperature, held long enough 
to reduce stresses and then cooled at a rate that will result in the 
properties required for the material grade and minimize the 
development of new residual stresses. 
3.1.10.10 strain hardened material-austenitic stainless 
steel material which has been subjected to cold working 
sufficient to cause a significant increase in strength. 
3.2 Definitions-For definitions of other terms used in this 
specification, refer to Terminology A941. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 It is the purchaser's - responsibility to specify in the 
purchase order all information necessary to purchase the 
needed material. Examples of such information include, but are 
not limited, to the following: 
4.1.1 Quantity and size, 
4.1.2 Product specification number with grade, class, type, 
as applicable, and including the product specification year date, 
4.1.3 Choice of testing track from the options listed in Test 
Methods A1058 when material is ordered to an M suffix (SI 
units) product standard. If the choice of test track is not 
specified in the order, then the default ASTM track shall be 
used as noted in Test Methods A1058. 
4.1.4 Any additional information required by the individual 
product specification, 
4.1.5 Supplementary requirements, 
4.1.6 Additional requirements (see 5.3, 5.5, 5.6, 6.1, 7.4, 
13.1, 13.3.1, 13.3.3, 13.5.2, 13.6, 15.8, and 19.1). 
4.1.7 Additional ordering options provided in the individual 
product specification, and 
4.1.8 Dimensions (diameter, length of point, overall length, 
finish, shape, threads, etc.). 
5. Melting Process 
5.1 The steel shall be produced by any of the following 
processes: basic-oxygen, electric-furnace, or vacuum­
induction melting (VIM). The molten steel may be vacuum­
treated prior to or during pouring of the ingot or strand casting. 
5.2 Unless otherwise specified in the individual product 
specification, the steel shall be fully killed. Use of the basic 
oxygen process shall be limited to grades containing less than 
6 % chromium. 
5.3 If a specific type of melting is required by the purchaser, 
it shall be stated on the purchase order. 
5.4 The primary melting may incorporate separate degas­
sing or refining and may be followed by secondary melting 
1414 