ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
gridlines at 0.1 %, up to 1.2% strain; and for stress, minor 
gridlines at 0.2 ksi (2 MPa) and major gridlines at 2.0 ksi 
(20 MPa). 
IV-1300 FATIGUE DATA 
If the material is to be used in cyclic service and the 
Construction Code in which adoption is desired requires 
explicit consideration of cyclic behavior, fatigue data for 
characterized samples shall also be furnished over the 
range of design temperatures desired, from 10 3 to at least 
10 6 cycles. 
IV-1400 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES 
For at least one heat meeting the requirements of the 
material specification, the inquirer shall furnish to the 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Committee on Materials ade­
quate data necessary to establish values for coefficient 
of thermal expansion, coefficients of thermal conductivity 
and diffusivity, modulus of elasticity, Poisson's ratio, and 
density. Test methods shall be as follows: 
(a) ASTM E228, E289, or E831 for thermal expansion 
coefficients 
(b) ASTM D2766, E1225, and E1461, for thermal con-
ductivity and thermal diffusivity 
(c) ASTM E1875 for modulus of elasticity 
(d) ASTM E1875 or ASTM E132 for Poisson's ratio 
Data from other equivalent national or international 
test standards shall be acceptable in lieu of those listed 
above. Instantaneous, mean, and linear coefficients of 
thermal expansion shall be reported. Data for all physical 
properties shall be provided at least over the range of 
temperatures for which the material is to be used. It is 
recommended that data be collected at temperature in­
tervals not greater than 100°F (50°C). If the material is in­
tended to be used below room temperature, data should 
be provided for temperatures down to the minimum 
use temperature. Data provided shall be expressed in 
the units and to the number of significant figures shown 
in Table IV-800-1. 
IV-1500 DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR WELDS, 
WELDMENTS, AND WELDABILITY 
The following welding information is required for a 
new base metal for use in welded construction in an 
ASME BPV Construction Code: data on weldability, data 
on strength and toughness in the time-independent re­
gime, data on strength in the time-dependent regime, 
and post-test examination. 
The data requirements for weldability and for strength 
in the time-independent regime are the responsibility of 
the BPV IX Standards Committee and are to be found in 
Section II, Part C, Guideline on the Approval of New Weld­
ing and Brazing Material Classifications Under the ASME 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code; and in Section IX, Man­
datory Appendix J, Guideline for Requesting P-Number 
Assignments for Base Metals Not Listed in Table QW / 
QB-422. The requirements for weld metal and weldment 
toughness data vary with the class of materials and their 
application, and are to be found in the Construction Codes 
that have toughness rules - Sections III, VIII, and XII. 
Data for welds and weldments for a new base material 
for use in the time-dependent regime are the responsibil­
ity of the BPV II and BPV IX Standards Committees, and 
particularly of their joint Subgroup on Strength of Weld­
ments. The following welding information shall be pro­
vided by the Inquirer, to support the request for a Code 
Case for, or incorporation of, a new base material for 
use in elevated temperature service: 
(a) When there is one or more AWS, ASME, or equiva­
lent consumable specification and classification suitable 
for use with the new base material, and when such con­
sumable/process combinations can produce welds and 
weldments that have both good weldability and as high 
or higher strengths as the base metal over the range of ex­
pected service temperatures, no time-dependent test data 
is required. Rather, the inquirer shall submit a tabular or 
graphical comparison of time-dependent allowable 
stresses for base metals nominally matching the composi­
tions of such welding consumables against the allowable 
stresses proposed for the new base metal. (Note that 
since neither ASME nor any other organization publishes 
allowable stresses for all-weld metal or for weldments, it 
is necessary to use, in this comparison, the allowable 
stresses for the base metals equivalent to the welding 
consumables as a reasonable first approximation.) An ex­
ample of such a comparison appears in Table IV-1500-1. 
(b) When there is no such suitable consumable having 
an AWS, ASME, or equivalent specification and classifica­
tion, or when it is necessary or desirable to use a new, 
perhaps nominally matching in composition to the base 
metal, welding consumable, the following information 
shall be provided to the Committee: 
(1) the chemistry ranges for each element specified 
for the consumable to be used. If the chemistry ranges 
vary for the consumables to be used for different pro­
cesses, then the chemistry ranges of the consumables ap­
propriate for each process shall be provided. 
(2) creep-rupture data for weldments made with 
one lot of consumables for each process intended to be 
used with the new base material 
(-a) at temperature intervals not greater than 
200°F (100°C). Where there is a possibility of degradation 
of strength related to metallurgical instability, test tem­
peratures shall be at intervals of 100°F (50°C) or less. 
(-b) over a temperature range spanning the range 
from the first rational temperature above the tempera­
ture at which time-dependent properties control the al­
lowable stresses of the new base material to about 
1631 