SA·960/SA·960M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
to the axial length of the fitting. Elbows, return bends, tees and 
header tees shall not be machined directly from bar stock. 
6.3 Fittings, after forming at an elevated temperature, shall 
be cooled to a temperature below the critical range under 
suitable conditions to prevent injury by cooling too rapidly. 
6.4 All classes of fittings shall have the welders, welding 
operators, and welding procedures qualified under the provi­
sion of Section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Code except that welds from the original pipe manufacturer 
made without the addition of filler metal do not require such 
qualification. 
7. Heat Treatment 
7 .1 Fittings requiring heat treatment shall be treated as 
specified in the individual product specification using the 
following procedures: 
7 .1.1 Annealing-Fittings shall be uniformly reheated to a 
temperature above the transformation range and, after holding 
for a sufficient time at this temperature, cooled slowly to a 
temperature below the transformation range. 
7.1.2 Solution Annealing (or Solution Treat or Treatment)­
Fittings shall be heated to a temperature that causes the 
carbides to go into solution and then quenched in water or 
rapidly cooled by other means to prevent reprecipitation. 
7.1.3 Isothermal Annealing-Isothermal annealing shall 
consist of austenitizing a ferrous alloy and then cooling to and 
holding within the range of temperature at which the austenite 
transforms to a relatively soft ferrite-carbide aggregate. 
7 .1.4 Normalizing-Fittings shall be uniformly reheated to a 
temperature above the transformation range and subsequently 
cooled in air at room temperature. 
7.1.5 Tempering and Post-Weld Heat Treatment-Fittings 
shall be reheated to the prescribed temperature below the 
transformation range, held at temperature for the greater of ½ 
h or 1 h/in. [25.4 mm] of thickness at the thickest section and 
cooled in still air. 
7.1.6 Stress Relieving-Fittings shall be uniformly heated to 
the selected stress relieving temperature, held long enough to 
reduce stresses and then cooled at a rate that will result in the 
properties required for the material grade and minimize the 
development of new residual stresses. The temperature shall 
not vary from the selected temperature by more than ± 25 °F 
[± 14 °C]. 
7.1.7 Quench and Temper-Fittings shall be fully austen­
itized and immediately quenched in a suitable liquid medium. 
The quenched fittings shall be reheated to a minimum tempera­
ture of 1100 °F [590 °C] and cooled in still air. 
8. Chemical Requirements 
8.1 Chemical Analysis-Samples for chemical analysis and 
methods of analysis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, 
Practices and Terminology A751 for Chemical Analysis of 
Steel Products. 
8.2 Heat Analysis-An analysis of each heat of steel shall be 
made by the manufacturer to determine the percentages of 
those elements specified in the individual product specification. 
If secondary melting processes are employed, the heat analysis 
shall be obtained from one remelted ingot of each primary 
melt. The chemical analysis thus determined shall conform to 
the requirements of the individual product specification. Note 
that the product analysis (check analysis) tolerances are not to 
be applied to the heat analysis requirements. 
8.2.1 For steels ordered under product specifications refer­
encing this specification of general requirements, the steel shall 
not contain an unspecified element, other than nitrogen for 
stainless steels, for the ordered grade to the extent that the steel 
conforms to the requirements of another grade for which that 
element is a specified element having a required minimum 
content. For this requirement, a grade is defined as an alloy 
described individually and identified by its own UNS or grade 
designation in a table of chemical requirements within any 
specification listed within the scope as being covered by this 
specification. 
8.3 Product Analysis-If a product analysis is performed it 
shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. The chemical composition thus determined 
shall conform to limits of the product specification, within the 
permissible variations of Table 1 of this specification. 
8.3.1 Limits on formula calculations involving elemental 
contents shall apply only to the heat analysis, unless agreed 
upon between supplier and purchaser. Where limits on formula 
calculations involving elemental contents apply to product 
analysis by such agreement, permissible variations in the 
formula calculation results beyond the limits for the heat 
analysis shall also be agreed upon between supplier and 
purchaser. Examples of such formula calculations include, but 
are not limited to, the following: carbon equivalent CE = C + 
Mn/6 + (Cr + Mo + V) / 5 + (Ni + Cu) / 15; J factor= (Mn + 
Si) x (P + Sn) x 104; or requirements for specific elemental 
balance or sufficiency, typically related to Ti, Nb, or Al and 
interstitials C and N, such as Nb = 5 x C minimum. 
9. Mechanical Requirements 
9.I Method of Mechanical Test-All tests shall be con­
ducted in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370 
if the inch-pound units are specified or Test Methods A1058 if 
the M suffix (SI Units) standard is specified. 
9.2 The test specimen shall represent all material from the 
same heat and heat treatment load whose maximum thick­
nesses do not exceed the thickness of the test specimen or 
blank by more than ¼ in. [6 mm]. 
9.3 One tension test at room temperature shall be made in 
accordance with 9.2 from each heat in each heat treatment load. 
9.3.1 If heat treatment is performed in either a continuous or 
batch type furnace controlled within ± 25 °F [ ± 14 °C] of the 
required heat treatment temperature and equipped with record­
ing pyrometers so that complete records of heat treatment are 
available, and if the same heat treating cycles are used on the 
material represented by the tension test, then one tension test 
from each heat shall be required, instead of one tension test 
from each heat in each heat treatment load in accordance with 
9.2. 
9.4 Retest-When a retest is permitted by the product 
specification, it shall be performed on twice the number of 
representative specimens that were originally nonconforming. 
1392 
-~ 