SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Not regulated as desired by the knurled thumb screw. By removing 
Rubber or adding rollers, the roller chain may be adapted for different 
Gasket sizes of tubular sections. 
Hydraulic Pressure Une 
FIG. A2.6 Testing Machine for Determination of Transverse Yield 
Strength from Annular Ring Specimens 
where: 
(1) P = 2St!D 
(2) S=PD/2t 
P = internal hydrostatic pressure, psi, 
(A2.2) 
(A2.3) 
S = unit circumferential stress in the wall of the tube 
produced by the internal hydrostatic pressure, psi, 
t = thickness of the tube wall, in., and 
D = outside diameter of the tube, in. 
A2.3.5 A roller chain type extensometer which has been 
found satisfactory for measuring the elongation of the ring 
specimen is shown in Figs. A2.7 and A2.8. Fig. A2.7 shows the 
extensometer in position, but undamped, on a ring specimen. 
A small pin, through which the strain is transmitted to and 
measured by the dial gauge, extends through the hollow 
threaded stud. When the extensometer is clamped, as shown in 
Fig. A2.8, the desired tension which is necessary to hold the 
instrument in place and to remove any slack, is exerted on the 
roller chain by the spring. Tension on the spring may be 
A2.4 Hardness Tests 
A2.4.1 Hardness tests are made either on the outside or the 
inside surfaces on the end of the tube as appropriate. 
A2.4.2 The standard 3000 kgf Brinell load may cause too 
much deformation in a thin-walled tubular specimen. In this 
case the 500 kgf load shall be applied, or inside stiffening by 
means of an internal anvil should be used. Brinell testing shall 
not be applicable to tubular products less than 2 in. (51 mm) in 
outside diameter, or less than 0.200 in. (5.1 mm) in wall 
thickness. 
A2.4.3 The Rockwell hardness tests are normally made on 
the inside surface, a flat on the outside smface, or on the wall 
cross-section depending upon the product limitation. Rockwell 
hardness tests are not performed on tubes smaller than 5 /16 in. 
(7.9 mm) in outside diameter, nor are they performed on the 
inside surface of tubes with less than ¼ in. (6.4 mm) inside 
diameter. Rockwell hardness tests are not performed on an­
nealed tubes with walls less than 0.065 in. (1.65 mm) thick or 
cold worked or heat treated tubes with walls less than 0.049 in. 
(1.24 mm) thick. For tubes with wall thicknesses less than 
those permitting the regular Rockwell hardness test, the Su­
perficial Rockwell test is sometimes substituted. Transverse 
Rockwell hardness readings can be made on tubes with a wall 
thickness of 0.187 in. (4.75 mm) or greater. The curvature and 
the wall thickness of the specimen impose limitations on the 
FIG. A2.7 Roller Chain Type Extensometer, Unclamped 
614 