ASME BPVC.ILA-2025 SA-609/SA-609M .
yo similar grid pattern for guidance in scanning. Grid numbers 18.3. Non-Linear Indications:
shall be stenciled on the casting for record purposes and 18.3.1 Isolated Indications — Isolated indications |
for grid area identity. The stenciled grid number shall _ shall not exceed the limits of the quality level designated
appear in the upper right hand corner of the grid. When _ by the customer’s purchase order listed in Table 3. An |
grids are laid out on the casting surface andthey encompass _ isolated indication may be defined as one for which the
different quality levels, each specific area shall beevaluated — distance between it and an adjacent indication is greater
in accordance with the requirements of the specific quality —_ than the longest dimension of the larger of the adjacent
level designated for that area. indications.
16.2 Overlap — Scan over the surface allowing 10% 18.3.2 Clustered Indications —- Clustered indica-
minimum overlap of the working diameters of the tions shall be defined as two or more indications that are
search unit. . confined in a 1 in. [25 mm] cube. Clustered indications
16.3. Inspection Requirements — All surfaces specified shall not exceed the limits of the quality level designated
; both sides, whenever both sides are accessible. The same on of the 1 t indication in the croup. the cluster shall .
. search unit used for calibration shall be used to inspect the hes OF NS TATE ESE TDCI AOD TEENS BEOUPs Bae CONSE Sa .
casting. e repair welded. |
18.3.3 The distance between two clusters must be
greater than the lowest dimension of the largest indication |
17. Additional Transducer Evaluation in either cluster. if they are not, the cluster having the
17.1 Additional information regarding any ultrasonic largest single indication shall be removed.
indication may be obtained through the use of other fre- 18.3.4 All indications, regardless of their surface
quency, type, and size search unit. areas as indicated by transducer movement on the casting
surface and regardless of the quality level required, shall
not have a through wall distance greater than ’47, where
| 18. Acceptance Criteria Tis the wall thickness in the area containing the indication.
’ 18.1 Rejectable Conditions — The locations of all indi- 18.3.5 Repair welding of cluster-type indications
cations having amplitudes greater than the 0.5 in. [13 mm] need only be the extent necessary to meet the applicable |
line given in 15.3.6, when amplitude three times (machined quality level for that particular area. All other types of
surfaces) or six times (cast surfaces) shall be marked on rejectable indications shall be completely removed. |
the casting surface. The boundary limits of the indication 18.3.6 Repair welds of castings shall meet the quality
nee be ermine by mann a een number level designated for that particular area of the casting. :
marks on the casting surfaces where the ultrasonic signa ; '
equals one half the veference amplitude, 0.25 in. [6 mn]. 18.3.7 Any location that has a 75% or greater loss |
To completelv delineate the indication. draw aline around 2 back reflection and exceeds the area of the applicable ,
pletely delineate the , , rar -
, a the outer boundary of the center of the number of marks quality level, and whose indication amplitudes May OF May
to form the indication area. Draw a rectangle or other not exceed the 0.5 in. [15 mm] rejection line, shall be |
| regular shape through the indication in order to form a rejected unless the reason for the loss in back reflection ,
polygon from which the area may be easily computed. van be resolved as not being caused by an indication. It
Me It is not necessary that the ultrasonic signal exceed the Bain 1s added and back echo 8 achieve d without indication
amplitude reference line over the entire area. At some percent amplitude exceeding the 0.5 in. [13 mm] rejection ,
locations within the limits of the indication, the signal may line, the area should be accepted. /
be less than the reference line, but nevertheless still present
such that it may be judged as a continuous, signal indica- :
tion. Rejectable conditions are as follows and when any 19. Records , ;
of the conditions listed below are found, the indications 19.1 Stenciling — Each casting shall be permanently
shall be removed and repair welded to the applicable pro- _— stenciled to locate inspection zones or grid pattern for
cess specification. | ease in locating areas where rejectable indications were :
18.2 Linear Indications — A linear indication is defined observed.
as one having a length equal to or greater than three times 19.2 Sketch — A report showing the exact depth and
its width. An amplitude of '4 in. [13 mm], such as would surface location in relation to the stencil numbers shall
J result from tears or stringer type slag inclusion, shall be | be made for each rejectable indicator found during each ,
Ne removed. inspection.
1039
