SA-841/SA-841M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Steel Plates for Pressure Vessels, Produced by Thermo­
Mechanical Control Process (TMCP) 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers steel plates produced by the 
thermo-mechanical control process (TMCP). The plates are 
intended primarily for use in welded pressure vessels. A 
description of the TMCP method is given in Appendix XL 
1.2 Due to the inherent characteristics of the TMCP method, 
the plates cannot be formed at elevated temperatures without 
sustaining significant losses in strength and toughness. Except 
for Grade G, the plates may be formed and post-weld heat­
treated at temperatures not exceeding 1200°F [650°C], provid­
ing the requirements of 6.1 are met. Grade G plates may be 
formed at temperatures not exceeding 985°F [530°C] provided 
the requirements of 6.1 are met. 
1.3 The maximum permitted nominal thickness of plates 
furnished to this specification is 4 in. [100 mm] for Grades A, 
B, and C; 1.5 in. [40 mm] for Grades D, E, and F; and 2 in. 
[50 mm] for Grade G. 
1.4 Grade G is susceptible to magnetization. Use of magnets 
in handling after heat treatment should be avoided if residual 
magnetism would be detrimental to subsequent fabrication or 
service. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents. Therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with this specifi­
cation. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Plates supplied to this product specification shall con­
form to Specification A20/A20M, which outlines the testing 
and retesting methods and procedures, permissible variations 
in dimensions, quality and repair of defects, marking, loading, 
etc. 
3.2 Specification A20/A20M also establishes the rules for 
ordering information that should be complied with when 
purchasing plates to this specification. 
3.2.1 If the plates are to be subjected to warm forming or 
post-weld heat treatment, the order must indicate the tempera­
tures and times-at-temperature that will be utilized in such 
operations. (See 6.1 and Specification A20/A20M, Supplemen­
tary Requirement S3.) 
3.3 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. These include: 
1356 