ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-376/SA-376M 
11.3 Flattening Test-For pipe heat treated in a batch-type 
furnace not equipped with recording pyrometers and automati­
cally controlled within a 50 °F [30 °C] or lesser range, the 
flattening test shall be made on 5 % of the pipe from each 
heat-treated lot. When heat treated by the continuous process, 
by quenching after hot forming or in a batch-type furnace 
equipped with recording pyrometers and automatically con­
trolled within a 50 °F [30 °C] or lesser range, this test shall be 
made on a sufficient number of pipe to constitute 5 % of the lot 
but in no case less than two pipes. 
12. Certification 
12.1 In addition to the certification required by Specification 
A999/ A999M, the certification for pipe furnished to this 
specification shall identify each length of pipe which is 
furnished without the manufacturer's completed hydrostatic 
test, in accordance with 10.3. 
13. Product Marking 
13.1 In addition to the marking prescribed in Specification 
A999/ A999M, the marking shall include the ANSI schedule 
number, the heat number or manufacturer's number by which 
the heat can be identified, and if applicable, NH when 
hydrotesting is not performed and ET when eddy-current testing 
is performed, or UT when ultrasonic testing is performed. 
13.2 If the pipe conforms to any of the supplementary 
requirements specified in S 1 through S 10, compliance shall be 
so indicated by adding the symbol "S" directly followed by the 
number of the applicable supplementary requirement to the 
marking prescribed in 13.1. 
13.3 No steel indentation stamping shall be done without 
the purchaser's consent. 
14. Keywords 
14.1 austenitic stainless steel; central station service; feed­
water heater tubes; stainless steel tube; steel tube; welded steel 
tube 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
FOR PIPE REQUIRING SPECIAL CONSIDERATION 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1. 1 Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. 
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo­
sition requirements shall be rejected. 
S2. Transverse Tension Tests 
S2. l A transverse tension test shall be made on a specimen 
from one end or both ends of each pipe NPS 8 [DN 200] and 
over in nominal diameter. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails to meet the required tensile 
properties (tensile, yield, and elongation), that length shall be 
rejected subject to retreatment in accordance with Specification 
A999/ A999M and satisfactory retest. 
S3. Flattening Test 
S3.l The flattening test of Specification A999/A999M shall 
be made on a specimen from one end or both ends of each pipe. 
Crop ends may be used. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails because of lack of ductility 
prior to satisfactory completion of the first step of the flattening 
test requirement that pipe shall be rejected subject to retreat­
ment in accordance with Specification A999/ A999M and 
satisfactory retest. If a specimen from any length of pipe fails 
because of a lack of soundness that length shall be rejected, 
unless subsequent retesting indicates that the remaining length 
is sound. 
S4. Etching Tests 
S4. l The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate portions of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 
and reasonably uniform material free from injurious 
laminations, cracks, and similar objectionable defects. If this 
supplementary requirement is specified, the number of tests per 
pipe required shall also be specified. If a specimen from any 
length shows objectionable defects, the length shall be rejected, 
subject to removal of the defective end and subsequent retests 
indicating the remainder of the length to be sound and 
reasonably uniform material. 
SS. Photomicrographs 
S5.l Photornicrographs at 100 diameters may be made from 
one end of each piece of pipe furnished in sizes NPS 6 [DN 
150] and larger in the as-furnished condition. Such photomi­
crographs shall be suitably identified as to pipe size, wall 
thickness, piece number, and heat. Such photornicrographs are 
for information only, and shall show the actual metal structure 
of the pipe as finished. 
645 