ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-609 /SA-609M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirement shall be applied only when agreed upon between 
the purchaser and the supplier to achieve an effective examination of a critical casting area 
that cannot be effectively examined using a longitudinal beam as a result of casting design 
or possible discontinuity orientation. 
S1. Angle Beam Examination of Steel Castings 
S1.1 Equipment: 
S1.1.1 Examination Instrument- Examination shall 
be conducted with an ultrasonic, pulsed-reflection type of 
system generating frequencies of at least 0.4 to 5 MHz. 
Properties of the electronic apparatus shall be the same as 
those specified in 4.1. 
S1.1.2 Search Units - Angle-beam search units 
shall produce an angle beam ip. steel in the range from 30 
to 75° inclusive, measured to the perpendicular of the entry 
surface of the casting being examined. It is preferred that 
search units shall have frequency of 0.4 to 5 MHz. 
S1.1.3 Calibration Blocks - A set of blocks, as 
shown in Fig. 4, with as cast surface equivalent to SCRATA 
Comparator A3 and of a thickness comparable to the sec­
tions being examined with side-drilled holes at ¼t, ½t, and 
¾t (where t = thickness of the block) shall be used to 
establish an amplitude reference line (ARL). 
Sl.2 Calibration of Equipment: 
S1.2.1 Construct the distance amplitude correction 
curve by utilizing the responses from the side-drilled holes 
in the basic calibration block for angle beam examination 
as shown in Fig. 4 and Table 5. 
S1.2.1.1 Resolve and mark the amplitudes of the 
¼t and ½t side-drilled holes from the same surface. The 
side-drilled hole used for the ¼t amplitude may be used 
to establish the ¾t amplitude from the opposite surface or 
a separate hole may be used. 
S1.2.1.2 Connect the ¼t, ½t, and ¾t amplitudes to 
establish the applicable DAC. 
S1.2.2 The basic calibration blocks shall be made 
of material that is acoustically similar to the casting being 
examined. 
S1.2.3 Do not use basic calibration blocks with as 
cast surface equivalent to SCRA TA Comparator A3 to 
examine castings with surface rougher than SCRATA 
Comparator A3. Use a machined calibration block for 
machined surfaces. 
S1.2.4 The search unit and all instrument control 
settings remain unchanged except the attenuator or cali­
brated gain control. 
S1.2.4.1 The attenuator or calibrated gain control 
may be used to change the signal amplitude during exami­
nation to permit small amplitude signals to be more readily 
detected. Signal evaluation is made by returning the attenu­
ator or calibrated gain control to its original setting. 
S1.3 Data Reporting - The supplier's report of final 
ultrasonic examination shall contain the following data: 
S1.3.1 The total number, location, amplitude, and 
area of all indications equal to or greater than 100% of the 
distance amplitude curve. 
S1.3.2 The examination frequency, type of instru­
ment, type, and size of search units employed, couplant, 
transfer method, examination operator, supplier's identi­
fying numbers, purchase order number, date, and author­
ized signature. 
S1.3.3 A sketch showing the physical outline of the 
casting, including dimensions of all areas not examined 
due to geometric configuration, with the location of all 
indications in accordance with S1.3.1. 
S1.4 Acceptance Standards - Acceptance quality lev­
els shall be established between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer on the basis of one or more of the following 
criteria: 
S1.4.1 No indication equal to or greater than the 
DAC over an area specified for the applicable quality level 
of Table 2. 
S1.4.2 Other criteria agreed upon between the pur­
chaser and the manufacturer. 
1045 