ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-401/SA-401M 
surface. The wire shall lie substantially flat on itself and not 
spring up nor show a wavy condition. 
10.2 Quench and Tempered-The wire shall be uniform in 
quality and temper and shall not be wavy or crooked. 
10.3 Each coil shall be one continuous length of wire 
properly coiled. Welds made prior to cold drawing are permit­
ted. If unmarked welds are unacceptable to the purchaser, 
special arrangements should be made with the manufacturer at 
the time of the purchase. 
11. Retests 
11.1 If any tested specimen exhibits an obvious defect or 
condition of non-conformance that is not representative of the 
coil from which it was collected, or shows the presence of a 
weld, it shall be discarded and another specimen substituted. 
11.2 If any tested specimen exhibits an obvious defect or 
condition of non-conformance that is representative of a 
portion of the coil from which it was collected, the manufac­
turer shall remove from the coil the portion containing the 
obvious defect or condition of non-conformance before col­
lecting another test specimen from the coil for the purpose of 
retesting. 
12. Inspection 
12.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of 
all inspection and test requirements specified in this specifica­
tion. Except as otherwise specified in the contract or purchase 
order, the manufacturer may use his own or any other suitable 
facilities for the performance of the inspection and test 
requirements unless disapproved by the purchaser at the time 
the order is placed. The purchaser shall have the right to 
perform any of the inspections and tests set forth in this 
specification when such inspections and tests are deemed 
necessary to assure that the material conforms to prescribed 
requirements. 
13. Rejection and Rehearing 
13 .1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection based on tests 
made in accordance with these specifications shall be reported 
to the manufacturer as soon as possible so that an investigation 
may be initiated. 
13.2 The material must be adequately protected and cor­
rectly identified in order that the manufacturer may make a 
proper investigation. 
14. Certification 
14.1 When specified in the purchase order or contract, a 
manufacturer's or supplier's certification shall be furnished to 
the purchaser that the material was manufactured, sampled, 
tested, and inspected in accordance with this specification and 
has been found to meet the requirements. When specified in the 
purchase order or contract, a report of the test results shall be 
furnished. 
14.2 The certification shall include the specification 
number, year date of issue, and revision letter, if any. 
15. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
15.1 The coil mass, dimensions, and the method of packag­
ing shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and 
purchaser. 
15 .2 The size of the wire, purchaser's order number, ASTM 
specification number, heat number, and name or mark of the 
manufacturer shall be marked on a tag securely attached to 
each coil of wire. 
15.3 Unless otherwise specified in the purchaser's order, 
packaging, marking, and loading for shipments shall be in 
accordance with those procedures recommended by Practices 
A700. 
671 
16. Keywords 
16.1 annealed chromium-silicon alloy; springs; tempered; 
wire 