SA-540/SA-540M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Alloy-Steel Bolting for Special Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers regular and special-quality 
alloy steel bolting materials and bolting components that may 
be used for nuclear and other special applications. See Speci­
fication A962/ A962M for the definition of bolting. 
1.2 The following referenced common requirements are 
indispensable for application of this specification: Specification 
A962/ A962M. 
1.3 Supplementary requirements of an optional nature are 
provided for use at the option of the purchaser. These supple­
mentary requirements only apply when specified individually 
by the purchaser in the purchase order or contract. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units; however, unless the purchase order or contract 
specifies the applicable "M' specification designation (SI 
units), inch-pound units shall apply. 
1.5 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A962/ A962M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Bolting Intended for Use at Any Temperature from Cryo­
genic to the Creep Range 
E45 Test Methods for Determining the Inclusion Content of 
Steel 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 The inquiry and orders for bolting material and bolting 
components under this specification shall include the 
following, as required, to describe the desired items ad­
equately: 
3.1.1 Grade and Class 
3.1.2 Condition (Section 5), 
3.1.3 Heat treatment (Section 6), 
3.1.4 Supplementary Requirements (Sl to S9), 
3.1.5 Reports required (Section 16), 
3.1.6 End use, and 
3.1.7 Any special requirements. 
3.2 The purchaser is referred to the listed supplementary 
requirements. 
4. Common Requirements 
4.1 Bolting materials and bolting components supplied to 
this specification shall conform to the requirements of Speci­
fication A962/ A962M. These requirements include test 
methods, finish, thread dimensions, macro etch, marking, 
certification, optional supplementary requirements, and others. 
Failure to comply with the requirements of Specification 
-----------------------------A:,~6211\~M constitutes nonconformance with this specifica-
912 
tion. In case of conflict between this specification and Speci­
fication A962/ A962M, this specification shall prevail. 