SA-736/SA-736M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Low-Carbon Age-Hardening Nickel­
Copper-Chromium-Molybdenum-Columbium (Niobium) Alloy 
Steel 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers low-carbon age-hardening 
alloy steel plates for welded pressure vessels and piping 
components. The specification covers nickel-copper­
chromium-molybdenum-columbium (niobium) steel. 
1.2 Plates under this specification are available as follows: 
1.2.1 Available in Grade A, Class 3 only. 
1.2.1.1 Quenched and precipitation heat treated with a 
minimum specified tensile strength of 85 ksi for thinner plates 
and 75 and 70 ksi for thicker plates, with the minimum tensile 
strength dependent upon the plate thickness. The maximum 
thickness of Grade A, Class 3 plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the chemical composition and heat treatment to 
meet the specified mechanical property requirements. 
1.3 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. However, unless the order specifies the 
applicable "M" specification designation (SI units), the mate­
rial shall be furnished in inch-pound units. 
1.4 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents. Therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with this specifi­
cation. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/ A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality, and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/ A20M. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 The steel shall be killed and shall conform to the fine 
austenitic grain size requirement of Specification A20/A20M. 
5. Heat Treatment 
5.1 The plates shall be quenched in a liquid medium from a 
temperature in the range from 1600 to 1700°F [870 to 930°C] 
1194 