ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-6/SA-6M 
A5.20/A5.20M, A5.23/A5.23M, A5.28/A5.28M, or A5.29/ 
A5.29M, whichever is applicable. For SMAW, low hydrogen 
electrodes shall be used. 
9.5.1.3 Electrodes and electrode-flux combinations shall be 
selected so that the tensile strength of the deposited weld metal 
(after any required heat treatment) is consistent with the tensile 
strength specified for the base metal being repaired. 
9.5.1.4 Welding electrodes and flux materials shall be dry 
and protected from moisture during storage and use. 
9.5.1.5 Prior to repair welding, the surface to be welded 
shall be inspected to verify that the imperfections intended to 
be removed have been removed completely. Surfaces to be 
welded and smiaces adjacent to the weld shall be dry and free 
of scale, slag, mst, moisture, grease, and other foreign material 
that would prevent proper welding. 
9.5.1.6 Welders and welding operators shall be qualified in 
accordance with the requirements of AWS Dl.1/Dl.lM or 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX, except 
that any complete joint penetration groove weld qualification 
also qualifies the welder or welding operator to do repair 
welding. 
9.5.1.7 Repair welding of structural products shall be in 
accordance with a welding procedure specification (WPS) that 
is in accordance with the requirements of AWS Dl.1/Dl.lM or 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX, with the 
following exceptions or clarifications: 
( 1) The WPS shall be qualified by testing a complete joint 
penetration groove weld or a surface groove weld. 
(2) The geometry of the surface groove weld need not be 
described in other than a general way. 
(3) An AWS Dl.1/Dl.lM prequalified complete joint 
penetration groove weld WPS is acceptable. 
( 4) Any material not listed in the prequalified base 
metal-filler metal combinations of AWS Dl.1/Dl.lM also is 
considered to be prequalified if its chemical composition and 
mechanical properties are comparable to those for one of the 
prequalified base metals listed in AWS Dl.1/Dl.lM. 
9.5.1.8 When so specified in the purchase order, the WPS 
shall include qualification by Charpy V-notch testing, with the 
test locations, test conditions, and the acceptance criteria 
meeting the requirements specified for repair welding in the 
purchase order. 
9.5.1.9 When so specified in the purchase order, the welding 
procedure specification shall be subject to approval by the 
purchaser prior to repair welding. 
9.5.2 Structural Products with a Specified Minimum Tensile 
Strength of 100 ksi [690 MPa] or Higher-Repair welding of 
structural products with a specified minimum tensile strength 
of 100 ksi [690 MPa] or higher shall be subject to the following 
additional requirements: 
9.5.2.1 When so specified in the purchase order, prior 
approval for repair by welding shall be obtained from the 
purchaser. 
9.5.2.2 The surface to be welded shall be inspected using a 
magnetic particle method or a liquid penetrant method to verify 
that the imperfections intended to be removed have been 
completely removed. When magnetic particle inspection is 
11 
employed, the surface shall be inspected both parallel and 
perpendicular to the length of the area to be repaired. 
9.5.2.3 When weld repairs are to be post-weld heat-treated, 
special care shall be exercised in the selection of electrodes to 
avoid those compositions that embrittle as a result of such heat 
treatment. 
9.5.2.4 Repairs on structural products that are subsequently 
heat-treated at the mill shall be inspected after heat treatment; 
repairs on structural products that are not subsequently heat­
treated at the mill shall be inspected no sooner than 48 h after 
welding. Such inspection shall use a magnetic particle method 
or a liquid penetrant method; where magnetic particle inspec­
tion is involved, such inspection shall be both parallel to and 
perpendicular to the length of the repair. 
9.5.2.5 The location of the weld repairs shall be marked on 
the finished piece. • 
9.5.3 Repair Quality-The welds and adjacent heat-affected 
zone shall be sound and free of cracks, the weld metal being 
thoroughly fused to all surfaces and edges without undercutting 
or overlap. Any visible cracks, porosity, lack of fusion, or 
undercut in any layer shall be removed prior to deposition of 
the succeeding layer. Weld metal shall project at least 1/J6 in. (2 
mm) above the rolled surface after welding, and the projecting 
metal shall be removed by chipping or grinding, or both, to 
make it flush with the rolled smiace, and to produce a 
workmanlike finish. 
9.5.4 Inspection of Repair-The manufacturer or processor 
shall maintain an inspection program to inspect the work to see 
that: 
9.5.4.1 Imperfections have been completely removed. 
9.5.4.2 The limitations specified above have not been ex­
ceeded. 
9.5.4.3 Established welding procedures have been followed, 
and 
9.5.4.4 Any weld deposit is of acceptable quality as defined 
above. 
10. Test Methods 
10.1 All tests shall be conducted in accordance with Test 
Methods and Definitions A370. 
10.2 Yield strength shall be determined either by the 0.2 % 
offset method or by the 0.5 % extension under load method, 
unless otherwise stated in the material specification. 
10.3 Rounding Procedures-For purposes of determining 
conformance with the specification, a calculated value shall be 
rounded to the nearest 1 ksi [5 MPa] tensile and yield strength, 
and to the nearest unit in the right-hand place of figures used in 
expressing the limiting value for other values in accordance 
with the rounding method given in Practice E29. 
10.4 For full-section test specimens of angles, the cross­
sectional area used for calculating the yield and tensile 
strengths shall be a theoretical area calculated on the basis of 
the weight of the test specimen (see 12.1). 
11. Tension Tests 
11.1 Condition-Test specimens for non-heat-treated struc­
tural products shall be taken from test coupons that are 
representative of the structural products in their delivered 