_,,.-----...___ 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
high temperature transformation products, and then holding 
it at that temperature until transformation is complete. 
austenitizing, n-forming austenite by heating a steel object 
above the transformation range. 
baking, n-heating to a low temperature in order to remove 
gases. 
batch furnace, n-a heating device within which steel objects 
are held stationary or oscillated during the thermal process­
ing cycle. 
blank carburizing, n-simulating the carburizing operation 
without introducing carbon. 
DiscussION-This is usually accomplished by using an inert material 
in place of the carburizing agent, or by applying a suitable protective 
coating on the object being heat treated. 
blank nitriding, n-simulating the nitriding operation without 
introducing nitrogen. 
DiscussION-This is usually accomplished by using an inert material 
in place of the nitriding agent, or by applying a suitable protective 
coating on the object being heat treated. 
bluing, n-subjecting the scale-free surface of a steel object to 
the action of air, steam, or other agents at a suitable 
temperature, thereby forming a thin blue film of oxide and 
improving the object's appearance and corrosion resistance. 
DiscussION-This term is ordinarily applied to sheet, strip, or 
finished parts. It is used also to denote the heating of springs after 
fabrication in order to improve their properties. 
box annealing, n-annealing in a sealed container under 
conditions that minimize oxidation. 
DiscussION-The charge is usually heated slowly to a temperature 
below the transformation range, but sometimes above or within it, 
and is then cooled slowly. 
bright annealing, n-annealing in a protective medium to 
prevent discoloration of the bright surface. 
capped steel, n-a rimmed steel in which, during ingot 
solidification, the rimming action was limited by mechanical 
or chemical means. 
carbon potential, n-the carbon content at the surface of a 
specimen of pure iron in equilibrium with the carburizing 
medium considered, and under the conditions specified. 
carbon restoration, n-replacing the carbon lost from the 
surface layer in previous processing by carburizing this layer 
to substantially the original carbon level. 
carbon steel, n-a steel that conforms to a specification that 
prescribes a maximum limit, by heat analysis in mass 
percent, of not more than: 2.00 for carbon and 1.65 for 
manganese, but does not prescribe a minimum limit for 
chromium, cobalt, molybdenum, nickel, niobium 
(columbium), tungsten (wolfram), vanadium, or zirconium. 
DiscussION-Except as required above, it is permissible for carbon 
steel specifications to prescribe limits (minimum or maximum, or both) 
for each specified alloying element, subject to the following restrictions 
for the heat analysis limits in mass percent: 
(a) for wrought carbon steel products, the specified maximum limit is 
not to exceed: 0.10 for aluminum, 0.60 for silicon, and 0.050 for 
titanium; 
(b) for carbon steel castings, the specified maximum limit is not to 
exceed: 0.10 for aluminum, 1.00 for silicon, and 0.050 for titanium. 
( c) for carbon steels that are required to be rephosphorized, the 
specified minimum limit for phosphorus is not to be less than 0.040; 
( d) for carbon steels that are required to be resulfurized, the specified 
minimum limit for sulfur is not to be less than 0.060; 
( e) for carbon steels that are not required to be rephosphorized or 
resulfurized, the specified maximum limit is not to exceed: 0.60 for 
copper, 0.050 for phosphorus, and 0.060 for sulfur; and 
(f) for carbon steels that are required to contain boron, copper, or lead, 
the specified minimum limit is not to exceed: 0.0005 for boron, 0.35 for 
copper, and 0.25 for lead. 
carbonitriding, n-case hardening in which a suitable steel 
object is heated above Ac 1 in a gaseous atmosphere of such 
composition as to cause simultaneous absorption of carbon 
and nitrogen by the surface and, by diffusion, to create a 
concentration gradient. 
carburizing, n-a process in which an austenitized steel object 
is brought into contact with a carbonaceous environment of 
sufficient carbon potential to cause absorption of carbon at 
the surface and, by diffusion, to create a concentration 
gradient. 
case, n-in case hardening, the outer portion that has been 
made harder than the core as a result of altered composition 
or microstructure, or both, from treatments such as 
carburizing, nitriding, and induction hardening. 
case hardening, n-a generic term covering any of several 
processes applicable to steel that change the chemical 
composition or microstructure, or both, of the surface layer. 
DiscussION-The processes commonly used are: carburizing and 
quench hardening; nitriding; and carbonitriding. It is preferred that 
the applicable specific process name be used. 
cast analysis-,-Deprecated term. Use the preferred term heat 
analysis. 
cementation, n-the introduction of one or more elements into 
the outer portion of a steel object by means of diffusion at 
high temperature. 
certificate of compliance, n-in manufactured products, a 
document that states that the product was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with the 
requirements of the specification (including year of issue) 
and any other requirements specified in the purchase order or 
contract, and has been found to meet such requirements. 
DiscussION-A single document, containing test report information 
and certificate of compliance information, may be used. 
certifying organization, n-in product specifications, the 
entity responsible for the conformance and certification of 
the product to the specification requirements. 
check analysis-Deprecated term. Use the preferred term 
product analysis. 
coarse grain practice, n-a steelmaking practice for other 
than stainless steel that is intended to produce a killed steel 
in which aluminum, niobium (columbium), titanium, and 
vanadium are residual elements. 
1381 