ASME BPVC,II.A-2025 SA-667 /SA-667M 
8. Test Method 
8.1 Tension test specimens shall fit the holders of the testing 
machine in such a way that the load shall be axial. The use of 
self-aligning shackles is suggested. After reaching a stress 
equivalent to 15 000 psi [100 MPa] the speed of the moving 
head of the testing machine shall not exceed Vs in. [3.2 
mm]/min. 
9. Inspection 
9.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have free 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed to all parts of the manufacturer's works that 
concern the manufacture of the material ordered. The manu­
facturer shall afford the inspector without charge all reasonable 
facilities to satisfy him that the material is being fumished in 
accordance with this specification. All tests and inspections 
shall be made at the place of manufacture prior to the shipment 
unless otherwise specified and shall be so conducted as not to 
inte1fere unnecessarily with the operation of the works. 
10. Acceptance and Certification 
10.1 Final acceptance of the casting shall follow complete 
machining of the casting. Upon request of the purchaser and 
when so specified in the purchase order, a certification shall be 
made on the basis of acceptance of the material. This shall 
consist of a copy of the manufacturer's test report or a 
statement by the supplier accompanied by a copy of the test 
results that the material has been sampled, tested, and inspected 
in accordance with the provisions of this specification. Each 
certification so furnished shall be signed by an authorized agent 
of the supplier or manufacturer. 
11. Product Marking 
11.1 Pressure containing castings made in accordance with 
this specification shall have the name of the manufacturer or 
his recognized trademark and the class of iron to which it 
conforms cast or indelibly stamped on the surface indicated by 
the purchaser or in such a position as not to injure the 
usefulness of the casting. 
1095 