ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
Al0.4.2 Reproducibility of Heat Treatment Parameters on 
Production Forgings: 
Al0.4.2.1 All information pertarnmg to the quench and 
temper of the master forging shall be recorded on an appro­
priate permanent record, similar to the one shown in Table 
AlO.l. 
Al0.4.2.2 All information pertaining to the quench and 
temper of the production forgings shall be appropriately 
recorded, preferably on a form similar to that used in 
Al0.4.2.1. Quench records of production forgings shall be 
retained for future reference. The quench and temper record of 
the master forging shall be retained as a permanent record. 
Al0.4.2.3 A copy of the master forging record shall be 
stored with the heat treatment record of the production forging. 
Al0.4.2.4 The essential variables, as set forth on the heat 
treat record, shall be controlled within the given parameters on 
the production forging. 
Al0.4.2.5 The temperature of the quenching medium prior 
to quenching each production forging shall be equal to or lower 
than the temperature of the quenching medium prior to 
quenching the master forging. 
Al0.4.2.6 The time elapsed from opening the furnace door 
to quench for the production forging shall not exceed that 
elapsed for the master forging. 
Al0.4.2.7 If the time parameter is exceeded in opening the 
furnace door to beginning of quench, the forging shall be 
placed back into the furnace and brought back up to equaliza­
tion temperature. 
Al0.4.2.8 All forgings represented by the same master 
forging shall be quenched with like orientation to the surface of 
the quench bath. 
Al0.4.2.9 All production forgings shall be quenched in the 
same quench tank, with the same agitation as the master 
forging. 
Al0.4.2.10 Uniformity of Heat Treat Parameters-(]) The 
difference in actual heat treating temperature between produc­
tion forgings and the master forging used to establish the 
simulator cycle for them shall not exceed ± 25 °F ( ± 14 °C) for 
the quench cycle. (2) The tempering temperature of the 
production forgings shall not fall below the actual tempering 
temperature of the master forging. (3) At least one contact 
surface thermocouple shall be placed on each forging in a 
production load. Temperature shall be recorded for all surface 
thermocouples on a Time Temperature Recorder and such 
records shall be retained as permanent documentation. 
Al0.4.3 Heat-cycle Simulation: 
Al0.4.3.1 Program charts shall be made from the data 
recorded on the master chart. All test specimens shall be given 
the same heating rate above, the ACl, the same holding time 
and the same cooling rate as the production forgings. 
Al0.4.3.2 The heating cycle above theACl, a portion of the 
holding cycle, and the cooling portion of the master chart shall 
be duplicated and the allowable limits on temperature and time, 
as specified in (a) through (c), shall be established for 
verification of the adequacy of the simulated heat treatment. 
( a) Heat Cycle Simulation of Test Coupon Heat Treatment 
for Quenched and Tempered Forgings and Bars-If cooling 
rate data for the forgings and bars and cooling rate control 
devices for the test specimens are available, the test specimens 
may be heat-treated in the device. 
(b) The test coupons shall be heated to substantially the 
same maximum temperature as the forgings or bars. The test 
coupons shall be cooled at a rate similar to and no faster than 
the cooling rate representative of the test locations and shall be 
within 25 °F (14 °C) and 20 sat all temperatures after cooling 
begins. The test coupons shall be subsequently heat treated in 
accordance with the thermal treatments below the critical 
temperature including tempering and simulated post weld heat 
treatment. 
(c) Simulated Post Weld Heat Treatment of Test Specimens 
(for ferritic steel forgings and bars)-Except for carbon steel (P 
Number 1, Section IX of the Code) forgings and bars with a 
nominal thickness or diameter of 2 in. (51 mm) or less, the test 
specimens shall be given a heat treatment to simulate any 
thermal treatments below the critical temperature that the 
TABLE A 10.1 Heat-treat Record-essential Variables 
Master Production Production Production Production Production 
Forging Foraing 1 Foraing 2 Forging 3 Forging 4 Forging 5 
Proqram chart number 
Time at temperature and actual temperature of heat treatment 
Method of coolinq 
ForginQ thickness 
Thermocouple immersion 
Beneath buffer {yes/no) 
Foraina number 
Product 
Material 
Thermocouple location-0 deq 
Thermocouple location-180 deg 
Quench tank No. 
Date of heat treatment 
Furnace number 
Cycle number 
Heat treater 
StartinQ quench medium temperature 
Time from furnace to auench 
Heatinq rate above 1000 °F (538 °C) 
Temoerature upon removal from auench after 5 min 
Orientation of forging in quench 
631 