SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Norn 2-Many machines are equipped with stress-strain recorders for 
autographic plotting of stress-strain curves. It should be noted that some 
recorders have a load measuring component entirely separate from the 
load indicator of the testing machine. Such recorders are calibrated 
separately. 
8.3 Loading-It is the function of the gripping or holding 
device of the testing machine to transmit the load from the 
heads of the machine to the specimen under test. The essential 
requirement is that the load shall be transmitted axially. This 
implies that the centers of the action of the grips shall be in 
alignment, insofar as practicable, with the axis of the specimen 
at the beginning and during the test and that bending or 
twisting be held to a minimum. For specimens with a reduced 
section, gripping of the specimen shall be restricted to the grip 
section. In the case of certain sections tested in full size, 
nonaxial loading is unavoidable and in such cases shall be 
permissible. 
8.4 Speed of Testing-The speed of testing shall not be 
greater than that at which load and strain readings can be made 
accurately. In production testing, speed of testing is commonly 
expressed: (l) in terms of free nmning crosshead speed (rate of 
movement of the crosshead of the testing machine when not 
under load), (2) in terms of rate of separation of the two heads 
of the testing machine under load, (3) in terms of rate of 
stressing the specimen, or (4) in terms of rate of straining the 
specimen. The following limitations on the speed of testing are 
recommended as adequate for most steel products: 
Norn 3-Tension tests using closed-loop machines (with feedback 
control of rate) should not be performed using load control, as this mode 
of testing will result in acceleration of the crosshead upon yielding and 
elevation of the measured yield strength. 
8.4.1 Any convenient speed of testing may be used up to 
one half the specified yield point or yield strength. When this 
point is reached, the free-running rate of separation of the 
crossheads shall be adjusted so as not to exceed 1/16 in. per min 
per inch of reduced section, or the distance between the grips 
for test specimens not having reduced sections. This speed 
shall be maintained through the yield point or yield strength. In 
detennining the tensile strength, the free-running rate of 
separation of the heads shall not exceed ½ in. per min per inch 
of reduced section, or the distance between the grips for test 
specimens not having reduced sections. In any event, the 
minimum speed of testing shall not be less than 1/10 the 
specified maximum rates for determining yield point or yield 
strength and tensile strength. 
8.4.2 It shall be permissible to set the speed of the testing 
machine by adjusting the free running crosshead speed to the 
above specified values, inasmuch as the rate of separation of 
heads under load at these machine settings is less than the 
specified values of free running crosshead speed. 
8.4.3 As an alternative, if the machine is equipped with a 
device to indicate the rate of loading, the speed of the machine 
from half the specified yield point or yield strength through the 
yield point or yield strength may be adjusted so that the rate of 
stressing does not exceed 100 000 psi (690 MPa)/min. 
However, the minimum rate of stressing shall not be less than 
10 000 psi (70 MPa)/min. 
9. Test Specimen Parameters 
9.1 Selection-Test coupons shall be selected in accordance 
with the applicable product specifications. 
9.1.1 Wrought Steels-Wrought steel products are usually 
tested in the longitudinal direction, but in some cases, where 
size permits and the service justifies it, testing is in the 
transverse, radial, or tangential directions (see Figs. 1 and 2). 
9.1.2 Forged Steels-For open die forgings, the metal for 
tension testing is usually provided by allowing extensions or 
prolongations on one or both ends of the forgings, either on all 
or a representative number as provided by the applicable 
product specifications. Test specimens are normally taken at 
mid-radius. Certain product specifications permit the use of a 
representative bar or the destruction of a production part for 
test purposes. For ring or disk-like forgings test metal is 
provided by increasing the diameter, thickness, or length of the 
forging. Upset disk or ring forgings, which are worked or 
extended by forging in a direction perpendicular to the axis of 
the forging, usually have their principal extension along 
concentric circles and for such forgings tangential tension 
specimens are obtained from extra metal on the periphery or 
end of the forging. For some forgings, such as rotors, radial 
tension tests are required. In such cases the specimens are cut 
or trepanned from specified locations. 
9.2 Size and Tolerances-Test specimens shall be (I) the 
full cross section of material, or (2) machined to the form and 
dimensions shown in Figs. 3-6. The selection of size and type 
of specimen is prescribed by the applicable product specifica­
tion. Full cross section specimens shall be tested in 8-in. 
(200 mm) gauge length unless otherwise specified in the 
product specification. 
9.3 Procurement of Test Specimens-Specimens shall be 
extracted by any convenient method taking care to remove all 
distorted, cold-worked, or heat-affected areas from the edges of 
the section used in evaluating the material. Specimens usually 
have a reduced cross section at mid-length to ensure uniform 
distribution of the stress over the cross section and localize the 
zone of fracture. 
588 
9.4 Aging of Test Specimens-Unless otherwise specified, it 
shall be permissible to age tension test specimens. The time­
temperature cycle employed must be such that the effects of 
previous processing will not be materially changed. It may be 
accomplished by aging at room temperature 24 to 48 h, or in 
shorter time at moderately elevated temperatures by boiling in 
water, heating in oil or in an oven. 
9.5 Measurement of Dimensions of Test Specimens: 
9 .5 .1 Standard Rectangular Tension Test Specimens-These 
forms of specimens are shown in Fig. 3. To determine the 
cross-sectional area, the center width dimension shall be 
measured to the nearest 0.005 in. (0.13 mm) for the 8-in. (200 
mm) gauge length specimen and 0.001 in. (0.025 mm) for the 
2-in. (50 mm) gauge length specimen in Fig. 3. The center 
thickness dimension shall be measured to the nearest 0.001 in. 
for both specimens. 
9.5.2 Standard Round Tension Test Specimens-These 
forms of specimens are shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5. To 
determine the cross-sectional area, the diameter shall be 