SA-609 /SA-609M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SPECIFICATION FOR CASTINGS, CARBON, LOW­
ALLOY, AND MARTENSITIC STAINLESS STEEL, 
ULTRASONIC EXAMINATION THEREOF 
SA-609 /SA-609M cO 
INT&RNATIONAL 
Standards Worldwide 
[Identical with ASTM Specification A 609/ A 609M-91(2007).] 
1. Scope 
1.1 This practice covers the standards and procedures 
for the pulse-echo ultrasonic examination of heat-treated 
carbon, low-alloy, and martensitic stainless steel castings 
by the longitudinal-beam technique. 
1.2 This practice is to be used whenever the inquiry, 
contract, order, or specification states that castings are to 
be subjected to ultrasonic examination in accordance with 
Practice A 609 / A 609M. 
1.3 This practice contains two procedures for ultrasonic 
inspection of carbon, low-alloy, and martensitic stainless 
steel castings, that is, Procedure A and Procedure B. Proce­
dure A is the original A 609 / A 609M practice and requires 
calibration using a series of test blocks containing flat 
bottomed holes. It also provides supplementary require­
ments for angle beam testing. Procedure B requires calibra­
tion using a back wall reflection from a series of solid 
calibration blocks. 
NOTE 1 - illtrasonic examination and radiography are not directly 
comparable. This examination technique is intended to complement Guide 
E 94 in the detection of discontinuities. 
1.4 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI 
units are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the 
text, the SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated 
in each system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system must be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in nonconformance 
with this practice. . 
1.5 This standard does not purport to address all of 
the safety problems, if any, associated with its use. It is 
the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish 
appropriate safety and health practices and determine the 
applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A 217 / A 217M Specification for Steel Castings, Marten­
sitic Stainless and Alloy, for Pressure-Containing Parts, 
Suitable for High-Temperature Service 
E 94 Guide for Radiographic Testing 
E 317 Practice for Evaluating Performance Characteristics 
of Ultrasonic; Pulse-Echo Testing Systems Without the 
Use of Electronic Measurement Instruments 
2.2 Other Document: 
SNT-TC-lA Recommended Practice for Nondestructive 
Testing Personnel Qualification and Certification 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 The inquiry and order should specify which proce­
dure is to be used. If a procedure is not specified, Procedure 
A shall be used. 
3.2 Procedure A - Flat-Bottomed Hole Calibration 
Procedure: 
3.2.1 When this practice is to be applied to an inquiry, 
contract, or order, the purchaser shall furnish the following 
information: 
3.2.1.1 Quality levels for the entire casting or 
portions thereof. 
3.2.1.2 Sections of castings requiring longitudinal­
beam examination. 
3.2.1.3 Sections of castings requiring dual element 
examination. 
3.2.1.4 Sections of castings requiring supplemen­
tary examination, using the angle-beam procedure 
described in Supplementary Requirement S 1 in order to 
achieve more complete examination. 
1034 