SA-522/SA-522M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
11. Method of Impact Testing 
11.1 The impact test shall be made in accordance with 
the simple beam, Charpy type of test described in the latest 
issue of Test Methods and Definitions A 370. 
11.2 Precaution shall be taken so that when broken, 
the test specimens shall be within ± 3°F [l.7°C] of the 
specified test temperature. 
12. Inspection 
12.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall 
have free entry, at all times while work on the contract 
of the purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the 
manufacturer's works that concern the manufacture of the 
material ordered. The manufacturer shall afford the inspec­
tor all reasonable facilities to satisfy the inspector that 
the material is being furnished in accordance with this 
specification. All tests (except product analysis) and 
inspection shall be made at the place of manufacture prior 
to shipment, unless otherwise specified, and shall be con­
ducted so as not to interfere unnecessarily with the opera­
tion of the works. 
12.2 The manufacturer shall report to the purchaser or 
the purchaser's representative the heat treatments applied 
to the material and to the test blocks and the results of the 
chemical analysis and mechanical tests made in accordance 
with this specification and the heat number or his heat 
identification. 
13. Rejection 
13.1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection based 
on tests made in accordance with Section 5 and 7 shall be 
including the impact test temperature, and test coupon 
stress relief details if applicable, 
14.1.4 Results of any additional or supplementary 
requirements specified by the purchaser, and 
14.1.5 The year date and revision letter, if any, of 
the specification. Note, this information is not required to 
be marked on the forgings. 
15. Product Marking 
15.1 Each forging shall be legibly stamped by the man­
ufacturer with the heat number or his heat identification, 
the manufacturer's name (see Note 1) or trademark, and 
this specification number, A 522 or A 522M as applicable, 
8Nl, or 9NI, and QT or NNT as applicable. 
NOTE 1 - For purposes of identification marking, the manufacturer 
is considered the organization that certifies the piping component was 
manufactured, sampled, and tested in accordance with this specification 
and the results have been determined to meet the requirements of this 
specification. 
15.2 Forgings impact tested at a temperature other than 
that specified in Table 3, by the use of Supplementary 
Requirement S2, shall be marked with the letters LTV 
following the specification number, as well as the tempera­
ture scale used. For forgings to A 522, these letters shall 
be followed by the impact test temperature in degrees 
Fahrenheit. A prefix 0 to the test temperature indicates a 
temperature below 0°F, for example A 522 Type 1 
LTV0300F indicates -300°F. For forgings to A 522M, the 
letters LTV shall be followed by the impact test tempera­
ture in degrees Celsius. A prefix 0 to the test temperature 
indicates a temperature below 0°C, for example A 522M 
Type 1 LTV0150C indicates -150°C. 
reported to the manufacturer within 60 days from the 15.3 The purchaser may specify additional identifica-
receipt of samples or test reports by the purchaser. tion marking and the location of all stamping. The type of 
13.2 Each forgingJtLlYhlchJnjurious-m~tal-de-feets--are~~~tamp~-s~aU-be-f0u~d0r--'-'interrupted-ctlot'-'-drestamps nav- -~-------
exposed during subsequent machining shall be rejected and mg a radms of ~2 m. [0.8 mm]. 
the manufacturer notified. 
14. Certification 
14.1 Test reports, when required, shall include certifi­
cation that all requirements of this specification have been 
met. The manufacturer shall provide the following where 
applicable: 
14.1.1 Whether Type 1 or Type 11 material has been 
supplied and the chemical analysis results in accordance 
with Section 5, 
14.1.2 Type of heat treatment used, 
14.1.3 Results of tension and Charpy impact tests 
(together with absorbed energy and % shear fracture) 
882 
15.4 Bar Coding - In addition to the requirements in 
15.1, 15.2, and 15.3, bar coding is acceptable as a supple­
mental identification method. The purchaser may specify 
in the order a specific bar coding system to be used. The 
bar coding system, if applied at the discretion of the sup­
plier, should be consistent with one of the published indus­
try standards for bar coding. If used on small parts, the 
bar code may be applied to the box or a substantially 
applied tag. 
16. Keywords 
16.1 low temperature applications; nickel alloy steel; 
pipe fittings; steel; piping applications; pressure containing 
parts; steel flanges; steel forgings; alloy; steel valves 