SA-311/SA-311M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified 
by the purchaser in the inquiry or order. Details of these requirements shall be agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
Sl. Special Surface 
Sl.1 When inspection standards more restrictive than 
visual inspection are required, special surface may be spec­
ified. 
S2. Restricted Cast or Heat Analysis 
S2.1 When required, the purchaser may specify restric­
tive cast or heat analysis limits on one or more elements. 
The degree of restriction and the number of elements so 
restricted are both subject to agreement between the manu­
facturer and the purchaser. 
S3. Restricted Decarburization 
S3.1 The purchaser may specify a maximum affected 
depth of decarburization when required for special applica­
tions, subject to agreement between the manufacturer and 
the purchaser. 
S4. Nonmetallic Inclusion Requirements 
(Microscopical) 
S4.1 When nonmetallic inclusion requirements are 
specified, the samples for testing shall be taken on a longitu­
dinal direction midway between the center and the surface 
of the material. The area of the sample to be examined 
450 
should be agreed upon between the purchaser and the man­
ufacturer, and the test specimen should be hardened by 
heating and quenched before being polished to avoid pits. 
The rating of the inclusion count should also be agreed 
upon and be based upon examination at a magnification 
of 100 diameters. Resulfurized steels are not subject to 
inclusion ratings. 
S5. Restricted Incidental Elements 
S5.1 The purchaser may specify limiting maximum 
requirements for copper, nickel, chromium, or molybde­
num subject to agreement between the manufacturer and 
the purchaser. 
S6. Grain Size 
S6.1 The steel shall conform to either the coarse austen­
itic grain size (except as stated in S6.2), or the fine austen­
itic grain size requirement of Specification A 29 / A 29M. 
S6.2 Certain elements, or combinations of elements, 
such as manganese, sulfur, and lead tend to produce grain 
refinement and it is technically inappropriate to ensure 
coarse grain size as measured by the McQuaid-Ehn test 
on high manganese, high sulfur, and leaded steels such as 
1144, 1151, and 11L41. 