SA-105/SA-105M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified by the purchaser in the 
inquiry, contract, and order. 
Sl. Hardness 
S 1.1 The purchaser may check the hardness of any or all 
forgings supplied at any location on the forging and the 
hardness shall be 137 to 197 HBW. All forgings not within the 
specified hardness range shall be rejected. 
S2. Heat Treatment 
S2.1 All forgings shall be heat treated as specified by the 
purchaser. 
S2.2 When forgings not requiring heat treatment by 6.1 are 
supplied heat treated by purchaser request, the basis for 
determining conformance with Table 2 and Table 3 shall be 
hardness testing per 8.4 and either (J) tensile testing of heat 
treated forgings per 8.2, or (2) tensile tests from as-forged 
forgings or separately forged test blanks, as agreed upon 
between the supplier and purchaser. 
S2.3 When test reports are required, and tensile test results 
were obtained from as-forged forgings or as-forged test blanks, 
it shall be so indicated on the test report. 
S2.4 fu addition to the marking required by Section 15, this 
specification shall be followed by the letter: A for annealed, N 
for normalized, NT for normalized and tempered, or QT for 
quenched and tempered, as appropriate. 
168 
S3. Marking Small Forgings 
S3.1 For small products where the space for marking is less 
than 1 in. [25 mm] in any direction, test reports are mandat01y 
and marking may be restricted to only such symbols or codes 
as are necessary to identify the parts with test reports. 
S3.2 When the configuration or size does not permit mark­
ing directly on the forging, the marking method shall be a 
matter of agreement between the manufacturer and the pur­
chaser. 
S4. Carbon Equivalent 
S4.1 The maximum carbon equivalent, based on heat 
analysis, shall be 0.47 for forgings with a maximum section 
thickness of 2 in. or less, and 0.48 for forgings with a 
maximum section thickness of greater than 2 in. 
S4.2 Determine the carbon equivalent (CE) as follows: 
CE= C + Mn/6 + ( Cr+ Mo+ V)/5+ (Ni+ Cu)/15 
S4.3 A lower maximum carbon equivalent may be agreed 
upon between the supplier and the purchaser. 