SA-985/SA-985M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
4.3.2.1 When castings are heat treated at tempera­
tures above 2000°F [1100°C], then the working zone shall 
have been established by a survey performed at not more 
than 25°F [15°C] below nor more than 200°F [l10°C] 
above the minimum heat treatment temperature specified 
for the grade. If a minimum heat treatment temperature is 
not specified for the grade, then the survey temperature 
shall be not more than 50°F [30°C] below nor more than 
175°F [100°C] above the furnace set point used. 
4.3.2.2 The maximum variation in measured tem­
perature as determined by the difference between the high­
est temperature and the lowest temperature shall be as 
agreed between the purchaser and producer except that 
during production heat treatment no portion of the furnace 
shall be below the minimum specified temperature nor 
above the maximum specified temperature for the grade 
being processed. 
4.4 Sampling: 
4.4.1 If castings are poured directly from one or 
more master heats, then the samples for chemical and other 
required testing also shall be poured directly from each of 
the master heats. 
4.4.2 If castings are poured from a subheat, then the 
samples for chemical and other required testing also shall 
be poured from a subheat of that same master heat, but 
not necessarily from the same subheat as the castings. The 
subheat used for the test samples shall be produced using 
the same practices and additions as used for the castings. 
4.4.3 Test specimens may be taken from castings or 
from coupons cast either integrally with the castings, in 
the same molds as the castings, or in separate molds. 
4.4.4 Separately cast specimens for tension testing 
shall be cast in molds of the same type and material as 
those used for the castings, as shown in Figs. 1-4 and 
Table 2, except when Supplementary Requirement S26 is 
specified. The test coupon in Fig. 4 shall be employed 
only for austenitic alloy castings with cross sections less 
than 2½ in. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5.1 Chemical Analysis - Chemical analysis of materi­
als covered by this specification shall be in accordance 
with Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology A 751. 
5.2 Heat Analysis - An analysis of samples obtained 
in accordance with 4.4 or Supplementary Requirement S27 
as appropriate, shall be made by the manufacturer to deter­
mine the percentages of the elements specified for the grade 
being poured. When drillings are used, they shall be taken 
not less than ½ 6 in. [1.6 mm] beneath the surface. The 
chemical composition thus determined shall be reported to 
the purchaser, or his representative, and shall conform to 
the requirements in the individual specification for the 
grade being poured. 
5.3 Product Analysis - A product analysis may be 
made by the purchaser from material representing each 
master heat, subheat, lot, or casting. The analysis shall 
be made on representative material. Samples for carbon 
analysis shall be taken no closer than ½ 6 in. [1.6 mm] to 
a cast surface except that castings too thin for this shall 
be analyzed on representative material. The chemical com­
position thus determined shall meet the requirements speci­
fied in the applicable specification for the grade involved, 
or shall be subject to rejection by the purchaser, except 
that the chemical composition determined for carbon and 
low-alloy steel castings may vary from the specified limits 
by the amounts shown in Table 1. The product analysis 
tolerances of Table 1 are not applicable as acceptance 
criteria for heat analysis by the casting manufacturer. When 
comparing product and heat analysis for other than carbon 
and low alloy steels, the reproducibility data R2, in Test 
Methods E 353 or E 354, as applicable, shall be taken into 
consideration. 
5.4 Unspecified Elements - When chemical analysis 
for elements not specified for the grade ordered is desired, 
Supplementary Requirement S 1 may be specified. 
NOTE 1 - All commercial metals contain small amounts of various 
elements in addition to those which are specified. It is neither practical 
nor necessary to specify limits for every unspecified element that might 
be present, despite the fact that the presence of many of these elements 
often is determined routinely by the producer. 
5.5 The substitution of a grade or composition different 
from that specified by the purchaser is prohibited. 
6. Mechanical Test Methods 
6.1 All mechanical tests shall be conducted in accor­
dance with Test Methods and Definitions A 370. 
7. Tensile Requirements 
7.1 Sampling for tension testing shall be in accordance 
with 4.4 or with Supplementary Requirement S28 as appro­
priate. 
7.2 The coupon from which the test specimen is taken 
shall be heat treated in production furnaces to the same 
procedure as the castings it represents. 
7 .3 If any specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws, it may be discarded and another substituted 
from the same heat. 
7.4 To determine accordance with the tension test 
requirements, an observed value or calculated value shall 
be rounded off in accordance with Practice E 29 to the 
1436 