SA·832/SA·832M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy Steel, Chromium­
Molybdenum-Vanadium 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers chromium-molybdenum­
vanadium alloy steel plates intended primarily for the fabrica­
tion of welded pressure vessels. 
1.2 The plates furnished under this specification are re­
quired to be normalized-and-tempered. Specification A542/ 
A542M includes coverage of the material in the quenched-and­
tempered condition. 
1.3 The maximum thickness of plates furnished to this 
specification is limited only by the capacity of the composition 
to meet the specified property requirements. 
1.4 The material is intended to be suitable for fusion 
welding. Welding technique is of fundamental importance and 
it is presupposed that welding procedures will be in accordance 
with approved methods. 
1.5 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. However, unless the order specifies the 
applicable "M" specification designation (SI units), the mate­
rial shall be furnished to inch-pound units. 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system must be used independentl.{ of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in nonconformance 
with the specification .. 
1.7 This jnternational standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A542/A542M Specification for Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy 
Steel, Quenched-and-Tempered, Chromium-
Molybdenum, and Chromium-Molybdenum-Vanadium 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3 .1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permis­
sible variations in dimensions, quality and repair of defects, 
marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/ A20M. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Manufacture 
4.1 Steelmaking Process-The steel shall be made by one of 
the processes permitted in Specification A20/A20M. 
1340 