ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-450/SA-450M 
26.9.3 The reference standard shall be passed through the 
test apparatus at the same speed and test system settings as the 
tube to be tested, except that, at the manufacturer's discretion, 
the tubes may be tested at a higher sensitivity. 
26.9.4 The signal-to-noise ratio for the reference standard 
shall be 2.5:1 or greater, and the reference signal amplitude for 
each discontinuity shall be at least 50 % of full scale of the 
display. In establishing the noise level, extraneous signals from 
identifiable surface impe1fections on the reference standard 
may be ignored. When reject filtering is used during UT 
testing, linearity must be demonstrated. 
26.9.5 If, upon any standardization, the reference signal 
amplitude has decreased by 29 % (3.0 dB), the test apparatus 
shall be considered out of standardization. The test system 
settings may be changed, or the transducer(s), coil(s), or 
sensor(s) adjusted, and the unit restandardized, but all tubes 
tested since the last acceptable standardization must be re­
tested. 
26.10 Evaluation of Imperfections: 
26.10.1 Tubing producing a test signal to or greater than the 
lowest signal produced by the reference standard shall be 
designated suspect, shall be clearly marked or identified, and 
shall be separated from the acceptable tubing. 
26.10.2 Such suspect tubing shall be subject to one of the 
following three dispositions: 
26.10.2.1 The tubes may be rejected without further 
examination, at the discretion of the manufacturer. 
26.10.2.2 If the test signal was produced by imperfections 
such as scratches, surface roughness, dings, straightener marks, 
loose ID bead and cutting chips, steel die stamps, stop marks, 
tube reducer ripple, or chattered flash trim, the tubing may be 
accepted or rejected depending on visual observation of the 
severity of the imperfection, the type of signal it produces on 
the testing equipment used, or both. 
26.10.2.3 If the test signal was produced by imperfections 
which cannot be identified, or was produced by cracks or 
crack-like imperfections, the tubing shall be rejected. 
26.10.3 Any tubes with imperfections of the types in 
26.10.2.2 and 26.10.2.3, exceeding 0.004 in. [0.1 mm] or 
12½ % of the specified minimum wall thickness (whichever is 
greater) in depth shall be rejected. 
26.10.4 Rejected tubes may be reconditioned and retested 
providing the wall thickness is not decreased to less than that 
required by this or the product specification. If grinding is 
perfonned, the outside diameter in the area of grinding may be 
reduced by the amount so removed. To be accepted, recondi­
tioned tubes must pass the nondestructive examination by 
which they were originally rejected. 
27. Test Report 
27.1 The producer or supplier shall furnish a test report 
stating that the material was manufactured, sampled, tested and 
inspected in accordance with the specification, including year 
date, the supplementary requirements, and any other require­
ments designated in the purchase order or contract, and that the 
results met the requirements of that specification, the supple­
mentary requirements and the other requirements. A signature 
or notarization is not required on the test report, but the 
document shall be dated and shall clearly identify the organi­
zation submitting the report. Notwithstanding the absence of a 
signature or notarization, the organization submitting the report 
is responsible for the contents of the report. 
27 .2 In addition, the test report shall include the following 
information and test results, when applicable: 
27 .2.1 Heat Number, 
27 .2.2 Heat Analysis, 
27.2.3 Product Analysis, when specified, 
27.2.4 Tensile Properties, 
27.2.5 Width of the gage length, when longitudinal strip 
tension test specimens are used, 
27 .2.6 Flattening Test acceptable, 
27.2.7 Reverse Flattening Test acceptable, 
27.2.8 Flaring Test acceptable, 
27.2.9 Flange Test acceptable, 
27.2.10 Hardness Test values, 
27.2.11 Hydrostatic Test pressure, 
27.2.12 Non-destructive Electric Test method, 
27.2.13 Impact Test results, and 
27.2.14 Other test results or information required to be 
reported by the product specification. 
27 .3 Test results or information required to be reported by 
supplementary requirements, or other requirements designated 
in the purchase order or contract shall be reported, but may be 
reported in a separate document. 
27.4 The test report shall include a statement of explanation 
for the letter added to the specification number marked on the 
tubes (see 30.2), when all of the requirements of the specifi­
cation have not been completed. The purchaser must certify 
that all requirements of the specification have been completed 
before removal of the letter (that is, X, Y, or Z). 
27.5 A test report, certificate of compliance, or similar 
document printed from or used in electronic form from an 
electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be re­
garded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and supplier. Notwithstanding the absence 
of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI transmis­
sion is responsible for the content of the report. 
28. Inspection 
745 
28 .1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities 
to satisfy him that the material is being furnished in accordance 
with this specification. All required tests and inspection shall 
be made at the place of manufacture prior to shipment, unless 
otherwise specified, and shall be conducted so as not to 
interfere unnecessarily with the operation of the works. 