(25) PREFACE 
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) 
have cooperated for more than fifty years in the preparation of material specifications adequate for safety in the field 
of pressure equipment for ferrous and nonferrous materials, contained in Section II (Part A - Ferrous and Part B -
Nonferrous) of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. 
The evolution of this cooperative effort is contained in Professor A. M. Greene's "History of the ASME Boiler Code," 
which was published as a series of articles in Mechanical Engineering from July 1952 through August 1953 and is 
now available from ASME in a special bound edition. The following quotations from this history, which was based upon 
the minutes of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Committee, will help focus on the cooperative nature of the speci­
fications found in Section II, Material Specifications. 
"General discussion of material specifications comprising Paragraphs 1 to 112 of Part 2 and the advisability of having 
them agree with ASTM specifications," (1914). 
"ASME Subcommittee appointed to confer with ASTM," (1916). 
"Because of this cooperation the specifications of the 1918 Edition of the ASME Boiler Code were more nearly in agree­
ment with ASTM specifications. In the 1924 Edition of the Code, 10 specifications were in complete agreement with ASTM 
specifications, 4 in substantial agreement and 2 covered materials for which ASTM had no corresponding specifications." 
"In Section II, Material Specifications, the paragraphs were given new numbers beginning with S-1 and extending to 
S-213," {1925). 
"Section II was brought into agreement with changes made in the latest ASTM specifications since 1921," (1932). 
"The Subcommittee on Material Specifications arranged for the introduction of the revisions of many of the specifications 
so that they would agree with the latest form of the earlier ASTM specifications ... ," (1935). 
From the preceding, it is evident that many of the material specifications were prepared by the Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code Committees, then subsequently, by cooperative action, modified and identified as ASTM specifications. Sec­
tion II, Parts A and B, currently contain many material specifications that are identical with the corresponding ASTM 
specifications and some that have been modified for Code usage. Many of these specifications are published in dual for­
mat. That is, they contain both U.S. Customary units and SI units. The metrication protocols followed in the specifications 
are those adopted by ASTM, and are usually to the rules of IEEE/ ASTM SI 10-1997, Standard for the Use of the Inter­
national System of Units (SI): The Modern Metric System. 
In 1969, the American Welding Society began publication of specifications for welding rods, electrodes, and filler me­
tals, hitherto issued by ASTM. The Boiler and Pressure Vessel Committee has recognized this new arrangement, and is 
now working with A WS on these specifications. Section II, Part C, contains the welding material specifications approved 
for Code use. 
In 1992, the ASME Board of Pressure Technology Codes and Standards endorsed the use of non-ASTM material for 
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code applications. It is the intent to follow the procedures and practices currently in use 
to implement the adoption of non-ASTM materials. 
The specifications prepared and copyrighted by ASTM, AWS, and other originating organizations are reproduced in 
the Code with the permission of the respective Society. The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Committee has given care­
ful consideration to each new and revised specification, and has made such changes as they deemed necessary to make 
the specification adaptable for Code usage. In addition, ASME has furnished ASTM with the basic requirements that 
should govern many proposed new specifications. Joint action will continue an effort to make the ASTM, AWS, and ASME 
specifications identical. 
To assure that there will be a clear understanding on the part of the users of Section II, ASME publishes both the iden­
tical specifications and those amended for Code usage every 2 years. 
The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code has been adopted into law by 50 states and many municipalities in the 
United States and by all of the Canadian provinces. 
xl 