ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-350/SA-350M (ASTM A350/A350M) 
"T DIMENSION SURFACES" 
2 2 in. [SO mm] 
2 2 in. [50 mm] 
NoTE 1-For clarity, only the Charpy V-notch specimen is shown in Figs. 1-4. The tension test specimen shall be located such that its orientation and 
the mid-length location meet the same requirements as that for the Charpy V-notch test specimen shown in Figure 1. 
FIG. 1 Separately Forged Test Bar for Forgings with T ,,; 2 in. [50 mm] 
(1) Except as stated in 7.1.3.2 (2) and 7.1.3.2 (3), the 
central axis of the test specimen shall be taken at least ¼ T 
from the nearest heat-treated surface and its mid-length shall be 
at least 2 in. [50 mm] from all other heat treated surfaces, 
exclusive of the T dimension surfaces. See Fig. 2 for test 
specimen location in separately forged test blanks. 
(2) For quenched-and-tempered or for quenched-and­
precipitation-heat-treated forgings, the central axis of the test 
specimen shall be taken at least ¼ T from the nearest heat­
treated surface, and the mid- length of the test specimen shall be 
at least T from all other heat treated surfaces, exclusive of the 
T dimension surfaces. See Fig. 3 for test specimen location in 
separately forged test blanks. 
(3) For quenched-and-tempered or for quenched-and­
precipitation-heat-treated forgings that have a W/T ratio < 2, 
the central axis of the test specimen shall be taken at least ¼ T 
from the nearest heat-treated surface, and at mid-width of the 
forging, where Wis the width of the forging. The test specimen 
mid-length shall be at least T from the ends of the forging or 
test blank. See Fig. 4 for test specimen location in separately 
forged test blank. 
7.1.3.3 Metal Buffers-The required distances from heat 
treated surfaces for the test locations described in 7.1.3.1 and 
7.1.3.2 may be obtained with metal buffers instead of integral 
expansions. Buffer material may be carbon or low alloy steel, 
and shall be joined to the forging with a partial penetration 
weld that seals the buffered surface. Specimens shall be located 
at½ in. [13 mm] minimum from the buffered surface of the 
forging. Buffers shall be removed after heat treatment and the 
welded areas subjected to magnetic particle test to assure 
freedom from cracks unless the welded areas are completely 
removed by subsequent machining. 
7.1.3.4 The test specimen shall have its longitudinal axis 
located parallel to the direction of major working of the forging 
or test blank. 
7.1.3.5 With prior purchaser approval, tests may be taken at 
a depth (t) corresponding to the distance from the area of 
significant loading to the nearest heat treated surface and at 
least twice this distance (2t) from any second surface. 
However, the test depth shall not be nearer to one treated 
surface than¾ in. [19 mm] and to the second treated surface 
than 1 ½ in. [38 mm]. This method of test location would 
normally apply to contour-forged parts, or parts with thick 
cross-sectional areas where ¼ T x T testing (7.1.3.2) is not 
practical. Sketches showing the exact test locations shall be 
approved by the purchaser when this method is used. 
7 .1.4 Test Method-Testing shall be performed as specified 
in Specification A961/A961M. The test specimen shall be as 
large as is practicable and shall be machined to the form and 
dimensions in Specification A961/A961M. When seamless 
tubular materials are used, testing shall be performed on 
longitudinal specimens as specified in Specification A961/ 
A961M. 
531 
1.2 Impact Test: 
7 .2.1 Requirements-The material shall conform to the 
requirements for impact properties in Table 3 when tested at 
the applicable standard temperature in Table 4 within the limits 
of 7.2.4.2 and 7.2.4.3. When subsize specimens are used, the 
impact energy values obtained shall conform to Table 5 at 
energy values proportional to standard size. Exceptions to this 
requirement are permissible when Supplementary Requirement 
S 1 is specified by the purchaser. Impact tests may be made at 
temperatures different from those in Table 4, provided that the 