ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-53/SA-53M 
taken from each end of each length of pipe. The tests from each 
end shall be made alternately with the weld at 0° and at 90° 
from the line of direction of force. 
7.3.3.3 For pipe produced in multiple lengths, the flattening 
test specified in 7.3.3.1 shall be made as follows: 
(1) Test specimens taken from, and representative of, the 
front end of the first pipe intended to be supplied from each 
coil, the back end of the last pipe intended to be supplied from 
each coil, and each side of any intermediate weld stop location 
shall be flattened with the weld located at 90° from the line of 
direction of force. 
(2) Test specimens taken from pipe at any two locations 
intermediate to the front end of the first pipe and the back end 
of the last pipe intended to be supplied from each coil shall be 
flattened with the weld located at 0° from the line of direction 
of force. 
7.3.3.4 For pipe that is to be subsequently reheated through­
out its cross section and hot formed by a reducing process, the 
manufacturer shall have the option of obtaining the flattening 
test specimens required by 7.3.3.2 or 7.3.3.3, whichever is 
applicable, either prior to or after such hot reducing. 
7.3.4 Continuous-Welded Pipe-A test specimen at least 4 
in. [100 mm] in length shall be flattened cold between parallel 
plates in three steps. The weld shall be located at 90° from the 
line of direction of force. During the first step, which is a test 
for ductility of the weld, except as allowed by 7.3.5, 7.3.6, and 
7.3.7, no cracks or breaks on the inside, outside, or end 
surfaces at the weld shall be present before the distance 
between tl1e plates is less than three fourths of the specified 
outside diameter of the pipe. As a second step, the flattening 
shall be continued as a test for ductility away from the weld. 
During the second step, except as allowed by 7.3.6 and 7.3.7, 
no cracks or breaks on the inside, outside, or end smfaces away 
from the weld shall be present before the distance between the 
plates is less than 60 % of the specified outside diameter of the 
pipe. During the third step, which is a test for soundness, the 
flattening shall be continued until the test specimen breaks or 
the opposite walls of the test specimen meet. Evidence of 
laminated or unsound material or of incomplete weld that is 
revealed by the flattening test shall be cause for rejection. 
7.3.5 Surface imperfections in the test specimen before 
flattening, but revealed during the first step of the flattening 
test, shall be judged in accordance with the finish requirements 
in Section 12. 
7.3.6 Superficial ruptures as a result of surface imperfec­
tions shall not be cause for rejection. 
7.3.7 For pipe with a D-to-t ratio less than 10, because the 
strain imposed due to geometry is unreasonably high on the 
inside surface at the 6 and 12 o'clock locations, cracks at such 
locations shall not be cause for rejection. 
8. Hydrostatic Test 
8.1 The hydrostatic test shall be applied, without leakage 
through the weld seam or the pipe body. 
8.2 Plain-end pipe shall be hydrostatically tested to the 
applicable pressure given in Table X2.2, and threaded-and­
coupled pipe shall be hydrostatically tested to the applicable 
pressure given in Table X2.3. It shall be pennissible, at the 
discretion of the manufacturer, to perform the hydrostatic test 
on pipe with plain ends, with threads only, or with threads and 
couplings; and it shall also be permissible to test pipe in either 
single lengths or multiple lengths. 
NoTE 4-The hydrostatic test pressures given herein are inspection test 
pressures, are not intended as a basis for design, and do not have any direct 
relationship to working pressures. 
8.3 The minimum hydrostatic test pressure required to 
satisfy the requirements specified in 8.2 need not exceed 2500 
psi [17 200 kPa] for pipe NPS 3 [DN 80] or smaller or 2800 
psi [19 300 kPa] for pipe larger than NPS 3 [DN 80]; however, 
the manufacturer has the option of using higher test pressures. 
For all sizes of seamless pipe and electric-resistance-welded 
pipe, the hydrostatic test pressure shall be maintained for at 
least 5 s. 
9. Nondestructive Electric Test 
9.1 Type E Pipe: 
_9. l. l Except for pipe produced on a hot-stretch reducing 
111111, the weld seam of each length of electric-resistance­
welded pipe NPS 2 [DN 50] or larger shall be tested with a 
nondestructive electric test in accordance with Practices E213 
E273, E309, or E570. Each length of electric-resistance~ 
welded pipe NPS 2 [DN 50] or larger and produced on a 
hot-stretch-reducing mill shall be tested with a nondestructive 
electric test that inpsects the full volume of the pipe in 
accordance with Practices E213, E309, or E570. 
9.1.2 Ultrasonic and Electromagnetic Inspection-Any 
equipment utilizing the ultrasonic or electromagnetic principles 
and capable of continuous and uninterrupted inspection of the 
weld seam shall be used. The equipment shall be checked with 
an applicable reference standard as described in 9.1.3 at least 
once every working tum or not more than 8 h to demonstrate 
its effectiveness and the inspection procedures. The equipment 
shall be adjusted to produce well-defined indications when the 
reference standard is scanned by the inspection unit in a 
manner simulating the inspection of the product. 
9.1.3 Reference Standards-The length of the reference 
standards shall be determined by the pipe manufacturer, and 
they shall have the same specified diameter and thickness as 
the product being inspected. Reference standards shall contain 
machined notches, one on the inside surface and one on the 
outside surface, or a drilled hole, as shown in Fig. 1, at the 
option of the pipe manufacturer. The notches shall be parallel 
to the weld seam, and shall be separated by a distance sufficient 
to produce two separate and distinguishable signals. The 1 /s-in. 
[3.2-mm] hole shall be drilled through the wall and perpen­
dicular to the surface of the reference standard as shown in Fig. 
1. Care shall be taken in the preparation of the reference 
standard to ensure freedom from fins or other edge roughness, 
or distortion of the pipe. 
Norn 5-The calibration standards shown in Fig. 1 are convenient 
standards for calibration of nondestmctive testing equipment. The dimen­
sions of such standards are not to be construed as the minimum sizes of 
imperfections detectable by such equipment. 
143 
9 .1.4 Acceptance Limits-Table 3 gives the height of accep­
tance lilnit signals in percent of the height of signals produced 
by reference standards. Imperfections in the weld seam that 