ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-370 
A4.4 Elongation 
A4.4.1 In determining permanent elongation, the ends of the 
fractured specimen shall be carefully fitted together and the 
distance between the gauge marks measured to the nearest 
0.01 in. (0.25 mm) with dividers and scale or other suitable 
device. The elongation is the increase in length of the gauge 
length, expressed as a percentage of the original gauge length. 
In recording elongation values, both the percentage increase 
and the original gauge length shall be given. 
A4.4.2 In determining total elongation (elastic plus plastic 
extension) autographic or extensometer methods may be em­
ployed. 
A4.4.3 If fracture takes place outside of the middle third of 
the gauge length, the elongation value obtained may not be 
representative of the material. 
A4.S Reduction of Area 
A4.5.1 The ends of the fractured specimen shall be carefully 
fitted together and the dimensions of the smallest cross section 
measured to the nearest 0.001 in. (0.025 mm) with a pointed 
micrometer. The difference between the area thus found and the 
area of the original cross section, expressed as a percentage of 
the original area, is the reduction of area. 
A4.5.2 The reduction of area test is not recommended in 
wire diameters less than 0.092 in. (2.34 mm) due to the 
difficulties of measuring the reduced cross sections. 
A4.6 Rockwell Hardness Test 
A4.6.1 On heat-treated wire of diameter 0.100 in. 
(2.54 mm) and larger, the specimen shall be flattened on two 
parallel sides by grinding before testing. The hardness test is 
not recommended for any diameter of hard drawn wire or 
heat-treated wire less than 0.100 in. (2.54 mm) in diameter. For 
round wire, the tensile strength test is greatly preferred over the 
hardness test. 
A4.7 Wrap Test 
A4. 7 .1 This test is used as a means for testing the ductility 
of certain kinds of wire. 
A4. 7 .2 The test consists of coiling the wire in a closely 
spaced helix tightly against a mandrel of a specified diameter 
for a required number of turns. (Unless other specified, the 
required number of turns shall be five.) The wrapping may be 
done by hand or a power device. The wrapping rate may not 
exceed 15 turns per min. The mandrel diameter shall be 
specified in the relevant wire product specification. 
A4.7.3 The wire tested shall be considered to have failed if 
the wire fractures or if any longitudinal or transverse cracks 
develop which can be seen by the unaided eye after the first 
complete tum. Wire which fails in the first tum shall be 
retested, as such fractures may be caused by bending the wire 
to a radius less than specified when the test starts. 
A4.8 Coiling Test 
A4.8.l This test is used to determine if imperfections are 
present to the extent that they may cause cracking or splitting 
during spring coiling and spring extension. A coil of specified 
length is closed wound on an arbor of a specified diameter. The 
closed coil is then stretched to a specified permanent increase 
in length and examined for uniformity of pitch with no splits or 
fractures. The required arbor diameter, closed coil length, and 
permanent coil extended length increase may vary with wire 
diameter, properties, and type. 
AS. NOTES ON SIGNIFICANCE OF NOTCHED-BAR IMPACT TESTING 
AS.I Notch Behavior 
A5.l.1 The Charpy and Izod type tests bring out notch 
behavior (brittleness versus ductility) by applying a single 
overload of stress. The energy values detennined are quantita­
tive comparisons on a selected specimen but cannot be 
converted into energy values that would serve for engineering 
design calculations. The notch behavior indicated in an indi­
vidual test applies only to the specimen size, notch geometry, 
and testing conditions involved and cannot be generalized to 
other sizes. of specimens and conditions. 
A5.l.2 The notch behavior of the face-centered cubic met­
als and alloys, a large group of nonfen-ous materials and the 
austenitic steels can be judged from their common tensile 
properties, If they are brittle in tension they will be brittle when 
notched, while if they are ductile in tension, they will be ductile 
when notched, except for unusually sharp or deep notches 
(much more severe than the standard Charpy or Izod speci­
mens). Even low temperatures do not alter this characteristic of 
625 
these materials. In contrast, the behavior of the ferritic steels 
under notch conditions cannot be predicted from their proper­
ties as revealed by the tension test. For the study of these 
materials the Charpy and Izod type tests are accordingly very 
useful. Some metals that display normal ductility in the tension 
test may nevertheless break in brittle fashion when tested or 
when used in the notched condition. Notched conditions 
include restraints to deformation in directions perpendicular to 
the major stress, or multiaxial stresses, and stress concentra­
tions. It is in this field that the Charpy and Izod tests prove 
useful for determining the susceptibility of a steel to notch­
brittle behavior though they cannot be directly used to appraise 
the serviceability of a structure. 
A5.1.3 The testing machine itself must be sufficiently rigid 
or tests on high-strength low-energy materials will result in 
excessive elastic energy losses either upward through the . 
pendulum shaft or downward through the base of the machine. 
If the anvil supports, the pendulum striking edge, or the 