SA-723/SA-723M ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Alloy Steel Forgings for High-Strength Pressure Component 
Application 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers requirements for high­
strength quenched and tempered alloy steel forgings for pres­
sure vessels, isostatic presses, shock tubes, and similar com­
ponents. 
1.2 These materials are not intended for welded construc­
tion. 
1.3 Three grades of nickel-chromium-molybdenum steels 
and six classes of increasing tensile strength are included. The 
strength class, section size, and configuration of the forging 
will largely dictate the applicable type(s) of steel. 
1.4 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI 
(metric) units are to be regarded separately as the standard. 
Within the text and tables, the SI units are shown in brackets. 
The values stated in each system are not exact equivalents; 
therefore, each system must be used independently of the other. 
Combining values from the two systems may result in noncon­
formance with the specification. 
1.5 Unless the order specifies the applicable "M" specifica­
tion designation, the material shall be furnished to the inch­
pound units. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A275/A275M Practice for Magnetic Particle Examination of 
Steel Forgings 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A388/A388M Practice for Ultrasonic Examination of Steel 
Forgings 
A 788/ A 788M Specification for Steel Forgings, General Re­
quirements 
2.2 Other Standards: 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code 
3. Ordering Information and General Requirements 
3.1 In addition to the ordering information required by 
Specification A788/A788M, the purchaser shall include with 
the inquiry and order a detailed drawing, sketch, or written 
description of the forging and the method of selecting test 
location (see 6.2). When appropriate, the areas of significant 
loading in the forging shall be designated. The purchaser may 
also include appropriate supplementary requirements from 
Specification A 788/ A 788M as well as from this specification. 
3.2 Material supplied to this specification shall conform to 
the requirements of Specification A788/A788M, which out­
lines additional ordering information, manufacturing 
requirements, testing and retesting methods and procedures, 
marking, certification, product analysis variations, and addi­
tional supplementary requirements. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A 788/ A 788M, the 
requirements of this specification shall prevail. 
3.4 When forgings are required to be in compliance with 
Division 3 of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
Supplementary Requirement S6 should be specified. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 Melting Practice-The steel melting procedures of 
Specification A 788/ A 788M shall apply except that the open­
hearth process shall not be used, and that the steel shall be 
vacuum degassed prior to or during the pouring of the ingot, in 
order to remove objectionable gases, particularly hydrogen. 
4.1.1 Use of secondary remelting or refining operations may 
be considered for particularly demanding applications. 
4.2 Discard-Sufficient discard shall be taken from each 
ingot to secure freedom from piping and excessive segregation. 
1176 