SA-450 /SA-450M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
29. Rejection 
29.1 Each length of tubing received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of the specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected tubing shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
29.2 Material that fails in any of the forming operations or 
in the process of installation and is found to be defective shall 
be set aside and the manufacturer shall be notified for mutual 
evaluation of the material's suitability. Disposition of such 
material shall be a matter for agreement. 
30. Product Marking 
30. l Each length of tube shall be legibly stenciled with the 
manufacturers's name or brand, the specification number, and 
grade. The marking need not include the year date of the 
specification. For tubes less than 1 ¼ in. [31.8 mm] in diameter 
and tubes under 3 ft [1 m] in length, the required information 
may be marked on a tag securely attached to the bundle or box 
in which the tubes are shipped. 
30.2 When it is specified that certain requirements of a 
specification adopted by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel 
Committee are to be completed by the purchaser upon receipt 
of the mate1ial, the manufacturer shall indicate that all require­
ments of the specification have not been completed by a letter 
such as X, Y, or Z, immediately following the specification 
number. This letter may be removed after completion of all 
requirements in accordance with the specification. An expla­
nation of specification requirements to be completed is pro­
vided in Section 27. 
30.3 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 30.1 
and 30.2, bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental identifi­
cation method. The purchaser may specifiy in the order a 
specific bar coding system to be used. 
31. Packaging, Marking, and Loading 
31. l When specified on the purchase order, packaging, 
marking, and loading for shipment shall be in accordance with 
the procedures of Practices A700. 
32. Government Procurement 
32.1 Scale Free Pipe: 
32.1.1 When specified in the contract or order, the following 
requirements shall be considered in the inquiry contract or 
order, for agencies of the U.S. Government where scale free 
tube is required. These requirements shall take precedence if 
there is a conflict between these requirements and the product 
specification. 
32.1.2 Tube shall be ordered to outside diameter (OD) and 
wall thickness. 
32.1.3 Responsibility for Inspection-Unless otherwise 
specified in the contract or purchase order, the manufacturer is 
responsible for the performance of all inspection and test 
requirements specified. The absence of any inspection require­
ments in the specification shall not relieve the contractor of the 
responsibility for ensuring that all products or supplies submit­
ted to the Government for acceptance comply with all require­
ments of the contract. Sampling inspection, as part of the 
manufactming operations, is an acceptable practice to ascertain 
conformance to requirements, however, this does not authorize 
submission of known defective material, either indicated or 
actual, nor does it commit the Government to accept the 
material. Except as otherwise specified in the contract or 
purchase order, the manufacturer may use his own or any other 
suitable facilities for the perfonnance of the inspection and test 
requirements unless disapproved by the purchaser at the time 
the order is placed. The purchaser shall have the right to 
perform any of the inspections and tests set forth when such 
inspections and tests are deemed necessary to ensure that the 
material conforms to the prescribed requirements. 
746 
32.1.4 Sampling for Flattening and Flaring Test and for 
Visual and Dimensional Examination-Minimum sampling for 
flattening and flaring tests and visual and dimensional exami­
nation shall be as follows: 
Lot Size (pieces per Sample Size 
lot) 
2 to 8 Entire lot 
9 to 90 8 
91 to 150 12 
151 to 280 19 
281 to 500 21 
501 to 1200 27 
1201 to 3200 35 
3201 to 10 000 38 
10 001 to 35 000 46 
In all cases, the acceptance number is zero and the rejection 
number is one. Rejected lots may be screened and resubmitted 
for visual and dimensional examination. All defective items 
shall be replaced with acceptable items prior to lot acceptance 
32.1.5 Sampling for Chemical Analysis-One sample for 
chemical analysis shall be selected from each of two tubes 
chosen from each lot. A lot shall be all material poured from 
one heat. 
32.I.6 Sampling for Tension and Bend Test-One sample 
shall be taken from each lot. A lot shall consist of all tube of the 
same outside diameter and wall thickness manufactured during 
an 8-h shift from the same heat of steel, and heat treated under 
the same conditions of temperature and time in a single charge 
in a batch type furnace, or heat treated under the same 
condition in a continuous furnace, and presented for inspection 
at the same time. 
32.1.7 Hydrostatic and Ultrasonic Tests-Each tube shall be 
tested by the ultrasonic (when specified) and hydrostatic tests. 
32.1.8 Tube shall be free from heavy oxide or scale. The 
internal surface of hot finished ferritic steel tube shall be 
pickled or blast cleaned to a free of scale condition equivalent 
to the CSa2 visual standard listed in SSPC-SP6. Cleaning shall 
be performed in accordance with a written procedure that has 
been shown to be effective. This procedure shall be available 
for audit. 
32.1.9 In addition to the marking in Specification A530/ 
A530M, each length of tube ¼ in. outside diameter and larger 
shall be marked with the following listed information. Marking 
shall be in accordance with SAE-AMS2806 and MIL-STD-
792. (a) Outside diameter, wall thickness, and length (b) Heat 
or lot identification number. 