SA-703/SA-703M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
penetrants to be used, developing procedure, and basis for 
acceptance shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and 
purchaser. A specification that may be used as a basis for such 
agreement is Specification A903/ A903M. 
S6.2 Personnel performing the examination shall be quali足
fied in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S7. Ultrasonic Inspection 
S7 .1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of ultrasonic inspection. The inspection procedure shall 
be in accordance with Practice A609/ A609M. Extent of 
examination, methods of testing, and basis for acceptance shall 
be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. A 
practice that may be used as a basis for such agreement is 
Practice A609/A609M. 
S7 .2 Ultrasonic examination of castings shall be performed 
after at least one heat treatment above the critical temperature 
range but need not be repeated after subsequent heat treatment. 
S7.3 Personnel performing the examination shall be quali足
fied in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S8. Charpy Impact Test 
S8.1 Charpy impact test properties shall be determined on 
each heat from a set of three Charpy V-notch specimens made 
from a test coupon in accordance with Test Methods and 
Definitions A370 or Test Methods A1058, as applicable, and 
tested at a test temperature agreed upon by the manufacturer 
and purchaser. The acceptance requirements shall be either 
energy absorbed, lateral expansion, or percent shear area, or all 
three, and shall be those agreed upon by the manufacturer and 
purchaser. Test specimens shall be prepared as Type A and 
tested in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370 
or Test Methods A1058, as applicable. 
S8.2 Absorbed Energy-Average energy value of three 
specimens shall be not less than specified, with not more than 
one value permitted to fall below the minimum specified, and 
no value permitted below the minimum specified for a single 
specimen. 
S8.3 Lateral Expansion-Lateral expansion value shall be 
agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S8.4 Percent Shear Area-Percent shear area shall be 
agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S9. Drop Weight Tests 
S9.1 Drop weight test properties shall be determined from 
each heat by preparing and testing either Type Pl, P2, or P3 
specimens in accordance with Test Method E208. The crack 
starter weld shall be deposited on the surface of the specimen 
that was nearest to the casting surface. Each test shall consist 
of at least two specimens tested at a temperature agreed upon 
by the manufacturer and purchaser. Each specimen shall 
exhibit "no break" performance. 
S10. Examination of Weld Preparation 
S10.1 Magnetic particle or liquid penetrant examination of 
cavities prepared for welding shall be performed to verify 
removal of those discontinuities found unacceptable by the 
inspection method specified for the casting. The method of 
performing magnetic particle or liquid penetrant examination 
shall be in accordance with Guide E709 or Practice E165/ 
E165M. Unless other degrees of shrinkage or types of discon足
tinuities found in the cavities are specified, Type II, Internal 
Shrinkage, of Reference Photographs E125, of Degree 2 in 
sections up to 2 in. [50 mm] thick and of Degree 3 in sections 
over 2 in. [50 mm] thick shall be acceptable. 
S11. 
(This number not assigned to a supplementary requirement.) 
S12. Prior Approval of Major Weld Repairs 
S 12.1 Major weld repairs shall be subject to the prior 
approval of the purchaser. 
S13. Hardness Test 
S 13 .1 A hardness test shall be made in accordance with Test 
Methods and Definitions A370 or Test Methods A1058, as 
applicable. The test location and the hardness requirements 
shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and the 
purchaser. 
S14. Tension Test from Each Heat and Heat Treatment 
Charge 
Sl4.1 One tension test shall be made for each heat and heat 
treatment charge. 
S15. Quench and Temper Heat Treatment 
S15.1 The castings shall be quenched and tempered. Cast足
ings so treated shall be marked "QT." 
S16. 
(This number not assigned to a supplementary requirement.) 
S17. Tension Test from Castings 
S 17 .1 In addition to the tensile test required in Section 6, 
test material shall be cut from heat-treated castings. The 
mechanical properties and location for the test material shall be 
agreed upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
S18. Tension Test for Castings Each Weighing 10 000 lb 
[ 4500 kg] or More 
S18.1 Two tensile tests shall be made for each casting. The 
test specimens shall be prepared in accordance with Section 6. 
The location of the test specimens shall be agreed upon by the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
S19. 
(This number not assigned to a supplementary requirement.) 
S20. Weld Repair Charts 
S20.1 Unless other criteria are agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser, weld repairs made to correct 
leakage on hydrostatic testing, or weld repairs for which the 
depth of the cavity required for welding exceeds 40 % of the 
actual wall thickness, or weld repairs for which the area of the 
cavity required for welding: 
1158 
--__/ 