SA-815/SA-81SM ASME BPVC.11.A•2025 
Standard Specification for 
Wrought Ferritic, Ferritic/Austenitic, and Martensitic 
Stainless Steel Piping Fittings 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers two general classes, WP and 
CR, of wrought ferritic, ferritic/austenitic, and martensitic 
stainless steel fittings of seamless and welded construction 
covered by the latest revision of Specification A960/ A960M. 
Fittings differing from these standards may be furnished in 
accordance with Supplementary Requirement S58 of Specifi-
cation A960/ A960M. • 
1.1.1 Class WP fittings are subdivided into four subclasses: 
Classes WP-S, WP-W, WP-WX, and WP-WU. They are 
manufactured to the requirements of Specification A960/ 
A960M, and they shall have pressure ratings compatible with 
12.2. Class WP-S fittings are those manufactured from seam­
less product by a seamless method of manufacture (marked 
with class symbol WP-S); Class WP-W fittings are those which 
contain welds where the fitting fabrication or construction 
welds have been radiographed (marked with class symbol 
WP-W); and Class WP-WX fittings are those which contain 
welds where all welds have been radiographed (marked with 
class symbol WP-WX); and Class WP-WU fittings are those 
which contain welds where all welds have been ultrasonically 
tested (marked with class symbol WP-WU). 
1.1.2 Class CR fittings are those manufactured to the 
requirements of MSS SP-43, and they shall have pressure 
ratings compatible with 12.3. 
1.2 This specification does not apply to cast fittings. 
1.3 Optional supplementary requirements are provided. 
When desired, one or more of these may be specified in the 
order. 
1.4 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. However, unless the order specifies the 
applicable "M" specification designation [SI units], the mate­
rial shall be furnished to inch-pound .units. 
1.5 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A262 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Austenitic Stainless Steels 
A388/A388M Practice for Ultrasonic Examination of Steel 
Forgings 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
A763 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Ferritic Stainless Steels 
A923 Test Methods for Detecting Detrimental Intermetallic 
Phase in Duplex Austenitic/Ferritic Stainless Steels 
A960/ A960M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Wrought Steel Piping Fittings 
E165 Practice for Liquid Penetrant Examination for General 
Industry 
2.2 ASME Standards: 
B16.9 Factory-Made Wrought Butt-Welding Fittings 
B16.11 Forged Fittings, Socket-Welding and Threaded 
2.3 MSS Standards: 
MSS SP-43 Standard Practice for Light Weight Stainless 
Steel Butt-Welding Fittings 
MSS SP- 79 Socket-Welding Reducer Inserts 
MSS SP-83 Steel Pipe Unions, Socket-Welding and 
Threaded 
1332 