SA-1016/SA·1016M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
bottom of imperfections shall be visible and the profile shall be 
rounded and faired-in. 
33.1.14 No weld repair by the manufacturer is permitted. 
33.1.15 Preservation shall be level A or commercial, and 
packing shall be level A, B, or commercial, as specified. Level 
A preservation and level A or B packing shall be in accordance 
with MIL-STD-163 and commercial preservation and packing 
shall be in accordance with Practices A700 or Practice D3951. 
34. Keywords 
34.1 alloy steel tube; austenitic stainless steel; duplex stain­
less steel; ferritic stainless steel; ferritic/austenitic stainless 
steel; heavily cold-worked steel tube; seamless steel tube; 
stainless steel tube; steel tube; welded steel tube 
ANNEXES 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al .1 New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this Specification of General Re­
quirements subject to the following conditions: 
Al.1.1 Application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
A 1.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable specification. 
• Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, shall be furnished. 
Al.1.4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
Al. 1.5 The application shall state whether the new grade is 
covered by patent. 
A2. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF MATERIALS FROM OTHER A0l OR B02.07 SPECIFICATION 
A2.1 Wrought materials that are already covered by another 
A0l or B02.07 specification may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
A2. l .1 Application for the addition of a grade that is already 
covered in another A0l or B02.07 specification shall be made 
to the chair of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over that 
specification. 
A2.l.2 The chemical requirements, the specified mechani­
cal properties, and the heat treatment requirements of the grade 
being added shall be the same as those for the grade in the A0l 
or B02.07 specification in which the grade is presently covered. 
A2. l .3 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
A2.1 .4 The application shall state whether or not the grade 
is covered by patent. 
1536 