SA-962/SA-962M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SNT-TC-lA (1988 or later) or another national standard that is 
acceptable to both the purchaser and the supplier. 
18. Rejection and Rehearing 
18.1 Samples representing material rejected by the pur­
chaser shall be preserved until disposition of the claim has been 
agreed to between the supplier and the purchaser. 
19. Certification 
19.1 Certification shall include a statement that the material 
or parts, or both, were manufactured, sampled, tested, and 
inspected in accordance with the requirements of the individual 
product specification, including the specification number, year 
date of issue, grade symbol, and manufacturer's identification 
symbol. In addition, the certification shall include the results of 
all tests required by this specification, the product specification, 
and the purchase order. The supplier shall provide additional 
specific information as required by the product specification or 
purchase order. 
19.2 A certificate printed from or used in electronic form 
from an electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be 
regarded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall also conform to any existing EDI agreement 
between the purchaser and the supplier. 
19.3 Notwithstanding the absence of a signature, the orga­
nization submitting either the EDI transmission or paper copies 
of certificates of test is responsible for the content of the report. 
20. Product Marking 
20.1 Bars shall be marked in accordance with Specifications 
A29/A29M or A484/A484M as applicable. Bolting materials, 
including threaded bar, furnished bundled and tagged, shall 
carry the grade symbol for the material and the manufacturer's 
identification symbol or name. Marking of individual bars is 
not required as long as the bars are bundled and tagged or 
boxed. 
20.2 Bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary identifi­
cation method. Coding should be consistent with AIAG B-5 
02.00. If used on small items, the bar coding may be applied to 
the box or a substantially applied tag. 
20.3 Grade and manufacturer's identification symbols shall 
be applied to one end of studs 3/s in. [10 mm] in diameter and 
larger and to the heads of bolts and screws ¼ in. [6 mm] in 
diameter and larger. If the available area is inadequate, the 
grade symbol may be marked on one end and the manufactur­
er's identification symbol marked on the other end of studs. 
Bolts and screws shall preferably be marked on top of the head. 
When necessary, bolts and screws may be marked on the side 
of the head provided the marking does not interfere with 
wrenchability or become damaged during tightening to the 
extent that legibility is lost. Products shall not be marked on the 
bearing surface or be marked in a way that alters the dimen­
sions or geometric characteristics of the bearing surface. 
20.4 Grade and manufacturer's identification symbols shall 
be applied to all nuts regardless of size. 
20.5 Hollow forgings shall be marked with the heat number 
or heat symbol and grade. 
20.6 When product is altered in a manner which changes 
specified requirements, it is the responsibility of the current 
certifying organization to ensure that the product marking is 
appropriately revised. This includes the removal of the name or 
symbol of the previous certifying organization. 
20.7 For purposes of product marking and test reports, the 
manufacturer is considered the organization that certifies the 
fastener was manufactured, sampled, tested, and inspected in 
accordance with the specification and the results have been 
determined to meet the requirements of the specification. 
20,8 Dual Marking-Product that meets all requirements of 
more than one grade within or between product specifications 
may be marked with both grade markings. The dual marking 
shall consist of the complete marking requirement for each 
grade, as required by the product specification, separated by a 
slash. For example, for Grade A193 B7 and A320 L7, the dual 
marking would be B7/L7. 
21. Packaging, Package Marking and Loading for 
Shipment 
21.1 Packaging, marking, and loading for shipment shall be 
in accordance with Practices A 700. 
22. Keywords 
22.1 austenitic stainless steel; bolts, steel; bolting 
components, steel; bolting materials; components, steel; nickel 
alloy bolting; nuts, steel; pressure vessel service; screws; 
stainless steel bolting; steel bars, alloy; steel bars, carbon; steel 
bars, stainless; steel bolting; studs; temperature service 
applications, high; temperature service applications, low; tur­
bine materials; washers 
1420 