ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-20/SA·20M 
for the applicable grade, class, and type, product analyses shall 
conform to the applicable product analysis limits given in 
Table 1. 
7.3 Referee Analysis-For referee purposes, Test Methods, 
Practices, and Terminology A751 shall be used. 
8. Metallurgical Structure 
8.1 Where austenitic grain size testing is required, such 
testing shall be a McQuaid Ehn test in accordance with Test 
Methods El12 and at least 70 % of the grains in the area 
examined shall meet the specified grain size requirement. 
8.2 Coarse Austenitic Grain Size-Where coarse austenitic 
grain size is specified one austenitic grain size test per heat 
shall be made and the grain size number so determined shall be 
in the range of 1 to 5 inclusive. 
8.3 Fine Austenitic Grain Size: 
8.3.1 Except as allowed in 8.3.2, and when fine austenitic 
grain size is specified, or when the producer elects to determine 
the grain size, one McQuaid Ehn test per heat shall be made 
and the austenitic grain size number so determined shall be 5 
or higher, and the chemical requirements of 8.3.2 do not apply. 
NoTE 1-Such austenitic grain size numbers may be achieved with 
lower contents of austenitic grain refining elements than 8.3.2 requires for 
austenitic grain size testing to be waived. 
8.3.2 Unless testing for fine austenitic grain size is specified 
in the purchase order or the producer elects to test for fine 
austenitic grain size, the austenitic grain size test need not be 
made for any heat that has, by heat analysis, one or more of the 
following: 
8.3.2.1 A total aluminum content of 0.020 % or more. 
8.3.2.2 An acid soluble aluminum content of 0.015 % or 
more. 
8.3.2.3 A content for an austenitic grain refining element 
that exceeds the minimum value agreed to by the purchaser as 
being sufficient for austenitic grain size testing to be waived. 
8.3.2.4 Contents for the combination of two or more auste­
nitic grain refining elements that exceed the applicable mini­
mum values agreed to by the purchaser as being sufficient for 
austenitic grain size testing to be waived. 
8.3.2.5 The analysis for the elements mentioned in 8.3.2.1, 
8.3.2.2, 8.3.2.3, or 8.3.2.4 shall be included in the test report. 
9. Quality 
9.1 General-Plates shall be free of injurious defects and 
shall have a workmanlike finish. 
9.2 Surface Impeifections: 
9.2.1 For plates produced from plate-as-rolled, all injurious 
surface imperfections shall be removed by the manufacturer. 
For plates produced from coil, all injurious surface imperfec­
tions shall be removed by the processor. 
9.2.1.1 Shallow imperfections shall be ground to sound 
metal; the ground area shall be well faired and the thickness of 
the ground plate shall not be reduced below the minimum 
thickness permitted. 
9 .2.1.2 All surface imperfections, the removal of which will 
reduce the plate thickness below the minimum thickness 
permitted, shall be cause for rejection of the plate, except that, 
73 
by agreement with the purchaser, the metal so removed may be 
replaced with weld metal (see 9.4). 
9.3 Edge Impeifections: 
9.3.1 Laminar-type discontinuities 1 in. [25 mm] and less in 
length visible to the unaided eye on an edge of a plate as 
prepared for shipment by the manufacturer or processor are 
acceptable and do not require exploration. 
9.3.2 All larger discontinuities shall be explored to deter­
mine their depth and extent. Discontinuities shall be considered 
continuous when located in the same plane within 5 % of the 
plate thickness and separated by a distance less than the length 
of the smaller of two adjacent discontinuities. 
9.3.3 Indications visible to the unaided eye on the cut edges 
of a plate as prepared for shipment by the manufacturer or 
processor shall not exceed the limits given in Columns 1 and 2 
of Table Al.14 [A2.14]. 
9.3.4 Larger indications shall be removed by the manufac­
turer or processor by grinding, provided that the resultant 
cavity does not exceed the limits given in Columns 3 and 4 of 
Table Al.14 [A2.14]. 
9.3.5 Indications of greater magnitude shall be cause for 
rejection of the plate, except that, by agreement with the 
purchaser, the defects may be removed and replaced with weld 
metal (see 9.4). 
9.3.6 Indications on the edges of a plate cut during the 
fabrication shall be cause for rejection of the plate at the 
discretion of the purchaser if the magnitude exceeds the limits 
given in Columns 5 and 6 of Table Al .14 [ A2. l 4]. The defects 
may be removed and replaced with weld metal (see 9.4). 
9.3.7 Fabricators should be aware that edge cracks may 
initiate upon bending a sheared or burned edge during the 
fabrication process. This is not considered to be a fault of the 
steel, but is rather a function of the induced cold work or heat 
affected zone. 
9.4 Repair by Welding: 
9.4.1 Repair welding shall be permitted only with the 
approval of the purchaser. 
9.4.2 Preparation for repair welding shall include inspection 
to confirm complete removal of the defect. 
9.4.3 Repairs shall be made utilizing welding procedures 
qualified in accordance with Section IX of the 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and repair welding 
shall be done by welders or welding operators meeting the 
qualification requirements of Section IX. 
9.4.4 The weld metal shall have the A-number analysis 
corresponding to the equivalent ASME P-number of the plate, 
except that A-1 or A-2 analysis weld metal may be employed 
for P-1 plates. Other weld metals may be employed that are 
compatible with the plate being repaired, if so approved by the 
purchaser. Such weld metals shall be qualified in accordance 
with the requirements of Section IX of the 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. 
9.4.5 If Charpy impact tests of the plate are required, the 
welding procedure qualification tests shall also include Charpy 
impact tests of the weld, the heat-affected zone, and the plate, 
and the test results shall be reported to the purchaser. 
9 .4.6 If the plate is subjected to normalizing, quenching and 
tempering, hot forming, or post-weld heat treating, the welding 