SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
forgings and bars may receive during fabrication. The simu­
lated heat treatment shall utilize temperatures, times, and 
cooling rates as specified on the order. The total time at 
temperature( s) for the test material shall be at least 80 % of the 
total time at temperature(s) to which the forgings and bars are 
subjected during postweld heat treatment. The total time at 
temperature(s) for the test specimens may be performed in a 
single cycle. 
Al0.4.3.3 Prior to heat treatment in the simulator unit, test 
specimens shall be machined to standard sizes that have been 
determined to allow adequately for subsequent removal of 
decarb and oxidation. 
Al0.4.3.4 At least one thermocouple per specimen shall be 
used for continuous recording of temperature on an indepen­
dent external temperature-monitoring source. Due to the sen­
sitivity and design peculiarities of the heating chamber of 
certain equipment, it is mandatory that the hot junctions of 
control and monitoring thermocouples always be placed in the 
same relative position with respect to the heating source 
(generally infrared lamps). 
Al0.4.3.5 Each individual specimen shall be identified, and 
such identification shall be clearly shown on the simulator 
chart and simulator cycle record. 
Al0.4.3.6 The simulator chart shall be compared to the 
master chart for accurate reproduction of simulated quench in 
accordance with Al0.4.3.2(a). If any one specimen is not heat 
treated within the acceptable limits of temperature and time, 
such specimen shall be discarded and replaced by a newly 
machined specimen. Documentation of such action and reasons 
for deviation from the master chart shall be shown on the 
simulator chart, and on the co1Tesponding nonconformance 
repmi. 
Al0.4.4 Reheat Treatment and Retesting: 
Al0.4.4.1 In the event of a test failure, retesting shall be 
handled in accordance with rules set forth by the material 
specification. 
Al0.4.4.2 If retesting is permissible, a new test specimen 
shall be heat treated the same as previously. The production 
forging that it represents will have received the same heat 
treatment. If the test passes, the forging shall be acceptable. If 
it fails, the forging shall be rejected or shall be subject to reheat 
treatment if permissible. 
Al0.4.4.3 If reheat treatment is permissible, proceed as 
follows: ( 1) Reheat treatment same as original heat treatment 
(time, temperature, cooling rate). Using new test specimens 
from an area as close as possible to the original specimens, 
repeat the austenitize and quench cycles twice, followed by the 
tempering cycle (double quench and temper). The production 
forging shall be given the identical double quench and temper 
as its test specimens above. (2) Reheat treatment using a new 
heat treatment practice. Any change in time, temperature, or 
cooling rate shall constitute a new heat treatment practice. A 
new master curve shall be produced and the simulation and 
testing shall proceed as originally set forth. 
632 
Al0.4.4.4 In summation, each test specimen and its corre­
sponding forging shall receive identical heat treatment or heat 
treatment; otherwise the testing shall be invalid. 
Al0.4.5 Storage, Recall, and Documentation of Heat-cycle 
Simulation Data-All records pertaining to heat-cycle simula­
tion shall be maintained and held for a period of ten years or as 
designed by the customer. Information shall be so organized 
that all practices can be verified by adequate documented 
records. 