SA-542/SA-542M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy Steel, Quenched-and­
Tempered, Chromium-Molybdenum, and Chromium­
Molybdenum-Vanadium 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers two types of2¼ Cr-1 Mo and 
three types of Cr-Mo-V alloy steel plates for use in the 
quenched-and-tempered condition, intended for the fabrication 
of welded pressure vessels and components. 
1.2 Material under this specification is available in five 
types, designated "A," "B," "C," "D," and "E." Type B is 
identical to Type A except for restrictive limits for carbon, 
phosphorus, sulfur, and nickel. The material is also available in 
five classes having the following strength levels. Type E is 
available only as Class 4 and 4a. 
Class Minimum Tensile Strength, ksi [MPa] 
1 105 [725] 
2 115 [795] 
3 95 [655] 
4 and 4a 85 [585] 
1.3 The maximum thickness of plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the chemical composition to meet the specified 
mechanical property requirements. 
1.4 The minimum thickness of plates is limited to 3/16 in. [5 
mm]. 
1.5 The material is intended to be suitable for fusion 
welding. Welding technique is of fundamental importance and 
it is presupposed that welding procedures will be in accordance 
with approved methods. 
1.6 These alloy steel plates in the as-rolled condition are 
sensitive to cracking during flame cutting, transit, and han­
dling. They should be shipped in the as-rolled condition only 
with the mutual agreement of the manufacturer and the 
purchaser or fabricator. 
1.7 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents, therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with this specifi­
cation. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
930 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A387 / A387M Specification for Pressure Vessel Plates, Alloy 
Steel, Chromium-Molybdenum 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this material s ecification shall 
con orm to pec1 cation A20/A20M. These requirements out­
line the testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 