SA-358/SA-358M ASME BPVC.ILA-2025
with their centers parallel to the material surface and not over 16.2 For Class 5 pipe, the welded joints shall be spot os
1 in. [25 mm] apart. The centers of the specimens adjacent to —_ radiographed to the extent of not less than 12 in. [300 mm] of |
material surfaces shall not exceed %% in. [16 mm] from the radiograph per 50 ft [15 m] of weld.
surface. 16.3 For Classes 1, 3, and 4 pipe, radiographic examination
14.4 The test specimens shall not be cut from the pipe or test = shall be in accordance with the requirements of the ASME
plate until after final heat treatment. Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, latest edition,
Paragraph UW-51.
15. Mechanical Tests Required . ae
16.4 For Class 5 pipe, radiographic examination shall be in
15.1 For the purposes of the tension and bend test accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and
requirements, the term “lot” shall mean all pipe of the same —preggure Vessel Code, Section VII, Division 1, latest edition,
grade, permitted to include more than one heat of steel, within Paragraph UW-52.
a *“o-in [4.7-mm] range of thickness and welded to the same a
weld procedure, and when heat treated, done so to the same 16.5 Radiographic examination is permitted to be per-
heat-treating procedure and in the same furnace. The maximum formed prior to heat treatment.
lot size shall be 200 linear ft [60 m] of pipe. 17. Lengths aT
15.1.1 Transverse Tension Test—One test shall be made to , ; . ;
_ .; 17.1 Circumferentially welded joints of the same quality as
represent each lot of finished pipe. as pes .
15.1.2 Transverse Guided-Bend Weld Test—One test (two the longitudinal joints shall be permitted by agreement between
specimens) shall be made to represent each lot of finished pipe. the manutacturer and the purchaser.
15.2 Hydrostatic Test—Each length of pipe shall be sub- 18. Product Marking
jected to a hydrostatic test in accordance with Specification 18.1 In addition to the marking prescribed in Specification
A999/A999M, unless specifically exempted under the provi- §_A999/A999M, the markings on each length of pipe shall
sion of 15.3. Pressure shall be held for a sufficient time to _jnclude the plate material designations as shown in Table 1, the
permit the inspector to examine the entire length of the welded marking requirements of 6.3 and 15.3, and Class 1, 2, 3, or 4,
seam. as appropriate (see 1.3).
15.3 The purchaser, with the agreement of the manufacturer, 18.2 Bar Coding—tIn addition to the requirements in 18.1,
is permitted to complete the hydrostatic test requirement with bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary identification
the system pressure test, performed at a pressure either lower method. Bar coding should be consistent with the Automotive
or higher than the specification test pressure, but in no case Industry Action Group (AJAG) standard prepared by the
shall the test pressure be lower than the system design pressure. Primary Metals Subcommittee of the AIAG Bar Code Project
Each length of pipe furnished without the completed manufac- Team.
turer’s hydrostatic test shall include with the mandatory ,
marking the letters “NH.” 19. Keywords
; ; -o, 19.1 arc welded steel pipe; austenitic stainless steel;
16. Radiographic Examination chromium-nickel steel; fusion welded steel pipe; high tempera-
16.1 For Classes 1, 3, and 4 pipe, all welded joints shall be ture application; steel pipe; temperature service applications;
completely examined by radiography. high; welded steel pipe
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS
| One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the
purchase order. The purchaser is permitted to specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is ,
. provided in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and ae
manufacturer, it is permitted to modify the retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary
requirements.
. S1. Product Analysis S3. Penetrant Oil and Powder Examination
S1.1 Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. S3.1 All welded joints shall be subjected to examination by
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo- _a penetrant oil and powder method. The details of the method
sition requirements shall be rejected. and the disposition of flaws detected shall be a matter for
S2. Tension and Bend Tests agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer.
S2.1 Tension tests (Section 12) and bend tests (Section 13) | 54+ Ferrite Control in Weld Deposits
shall be made on specimens to represent each length of pipe. S4.1 The ferrite content of the deposited weld metal in any
Failure of any test specimen to meet the requirements shall be length of pipe shall be determined. The procedural details
cause for the rejection of the pipe length represented. pertaining to this subject (that is, welding; plate and weld ,
572
