ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-592/SA-592M 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 Melting Process -The steel shall be made in accor­
dance with the Melting Process Section of Specification 
A 788. 
4.2 Grain Size - The steel shall be fully killed, fine 
grained (ASTM No. 5 or finer), as determined in accor­
dance with Test Methods E 112, Plate IV. 
4.3 Discard - Sufficient discard shall be made from 
each ingot to ensure freedom from piping and excessive 
segregation. 
4.4 The finished product shall be a hot-worked forging 
as defined by Specification A 788, and shall be forged as 
close as practicable to the finished shape and size. 
5. Heat Treatment 
5.1 After forging and before reheating, the forgings 
shall be cooled to provide substantially complete transfor­
mation of austenite. Heat treatment for properties shall 
consist of heating the forgings to not less than 1650°F 
[900°C], quenching in a liquid medium, and tempering at 
1150°F [620°C] minimum, with a holding time of 1 h/in. 
[l h/25 mm] minimum, but in no case less than½ h. 
6. Chemical Requirements 
6.1 Heat Analysis - The heat analysis obtained from 
sampling in accordance with Specification A 788 shall 
comply with Table 1. 
6.2 Product Analysis - The purchaser may use the 
product analysis provision of Specification A 788 to obtain 
a product analysis from a forging representing each heat 
or multiple heat. 
7. Mechanical Requirements 
7.1 The forgings as represented by tension tests shall 
conform to the requirements prescribed in Table 2, and to 
Table 3 for lateral expansion opposite the notch in Charpy 
V-notch impact tests. In addition, for the Charpy impact 
test, the values of energy absorption in foot-pounds [or 
joules] and the fracture appearance in percent shear shall 
be recorded and reported for information. 
7.2 Sampling: 
7.2.1 Samples for mechanical test specimens shall be 
removed after the quenching and tempering heat treatment. 
The purchaser shall specify any additional thermal treat­
ments that shall be given to the heat treated test specimens. 
(This is intended to simulate subsequent thermal treatments 
which may be perfonned by the fabricator.) 
7 .2.2 Samples shall be removed so that the test speci­
mens will have their major axes parallel to the direction 
of major working of the forging. 
7.2.3 Test specimens may be machined from a pro­
duction forging, or prolongation thereof, or from special 
forged blocks suitably worked and heat treated with the 
production forgings. Such special blocks shall be obtained 
from an ingot, slab, or billet from the same heat as the 
forgings they represent and shall be reduced by forging in 
a manner similar to that for the products to be represented. 
The forging reduction for a special test block shall not 
exceed the minimum forging reduction of the forgings 
represented, and its thickness shall not be less than the 
maximum thickness of the forgings represented. If a forg­
ing is tested, the tests must represent the maximum section 
thickness in the lot. All test specimens shall be located at 
the mid-plane of the thickness and, the mid length position 
of the gauge length ffoor tension test specimens, or the 
notch of the Charpy V-notch impact test specimens shall 
be at least T from any second surface of the production 
forging or test block, where T equals the maximum heat 
treated thickness of the forging. 
7.3 Number of Tests and Retests: 
7.3.1 Number of Tests, and Test Temperature: 
7.3.1.1 One room-temperature tension test and one 
set of three Charpy V-notch specimens shall be made to 
represent the maximum section from each heat in each 
heat-treatment charge. Impact tests shall be conducted at 
the temperature specified on the order, but no higher than 
32°F [0°C]. 
7 .3.1.2 One grain size test shall be made from 
each heat. 
7 .3.2 Retests of Tension Specimens - If the results of 
tension tests do not conform to the requirements specified, 
retests are permitted, as outlined in Test Method A 370 
and Specification A 788. 
7.3.3 Retests of Impact Specimens: 
7.3.3.1 If the lateral expansion value for one speci­
men is below 0.015 in. [0.38 mm] but not below 0.010 in. 
[0.25 mm] and the average equals or exceeds 0,015 in. 
[0.38 mm], a retest of three additional specimens may be 
made. Each of the three retest specimens must equal or 
exceed the specified minimum value of 0.015 in. 
[0.38 mm]. 
7.4 Test Methods - Tension and impact tests shall be 
made in accordance with the latest issue of Test Methods 
and Definitions A 370. 
1031 