SA/IS 2062 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
SPECIFICATION FOR HOT ROLLED MEDIUM AND HIGH TENSILE 
STRUCTURAL STEEL 
SA/IS 2062 
(Identical with International Specification JS 2062-2011 (Seventh Revision), as translated and published in the English language by the Bureau of 
Indian Standards, with these additional requirements.) 
1. Additional Requirements 
1.1 Marking: 
1.1.l In addition to the marking requirements of this 
specification, all products are to be identified by this SA/IS 
specification designation. 
The designation of the steel, grade designation, and 
quality shall be marked and followed by letters desig­
nating the applied heat treatment ( +AR, +N, or +NR). 
1.1.2 The required markings for plates shall be by 
steel die stamping, paint marking, or by means of perma­
nently affixed labels or tags. 
1.2 Chemical Composition: 
In addition to the chemical requirements ofTable 1 and 
Table 3 of this specification, the limits on elements listed in 
SA-20/SA-20M shall be observed. 
1.3 Mechanical Properties: 
Note 1 of Table 2 shall not apply to SA/IS 2062. 
1.4 Delivery Conditions: 
The products shall be supplied only in the as-rolled, 
normalized or normalized-rolled condition. Steel shall 
be killed by use of not less than 0.02% total aluminum 
content. Semi-killed steel shall not be used. 
1.5 Repair by Welding: 
Repairs shall be made by utilizing welding procedures 
qualified in accordance with ASME Section IX, and repair 
welding shall be done by welders or welding operators 
meeting the qualification requirements of ASME 
Section IX. 
1.6 Test Reports: 
1.6.1 For all products, a test report shall be furn­
ished. As a minimum, it shall include the following: 
(a) this SA/IS specification designation including the 
edition year 
(b) grade designation and quality to which the product 
is furnished 
(c) delivery condition 
( d) heat number, heat analysis, and nominal sizes 
(e) the results of all tests required by this SA/IS spec­
ification 
1.6.2 Copies of the original manufacturer's test 
report shall be included with any subsequent test report. 
2. Source 
2.1 See N onmandatory Appendix A for ordering infor­
mation to obtain an English language copy of IS 2062 and 
its references. 
1598 