SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
X2. VARIATION OF TENSILE PROPERTIES IN PLATES AND SHAPES 
X2. l The tension testing requirements of this specification 
are intended only to characterize the tensile properties of a heat 
of steel for determination of conformance to the requirements 
of the applicable product specification. Such testing procedures 
are not intended to define the upper or lower limits of tensile 
properties at all possible test locations within a heat of steel. It 
is well known and documented that tensile properties will vary 
within a heat or individual piece of steel as a function of 
chemical composition, processing, testing procedure and other 
factors. It is, therefore, incumbent on designers and engineers 
to use sound engineering judgement when using tension test 
results shown on mill test reports. The testing procedures of 
this specification have been found to provide structural prod­
ucts adequate for normal structural design criteria. 
X2.2 A survey of the variation to be expected in tensile 
properties obtained from plates and structural shapes was 
conducted by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI). 
The results of this survey are contained in a Contributions to 
the Metallurgy of Steel entitled "The Variation of Product 
Analysis and Tensile Properties-Carbon Steel Plates and 
Wide Flange Shapes" (SU/18, SU/19 and SU/20), published in 
September 197 4. The data are presented in tables of probability 
that tensile properties at other than the official location may 
differ from those of the reported test location. Another survey 
sponsored by the AISI entitled "Statistical Analysis of Struc­
tural Plate Mechanical Properties" was published in January 
2003. That survey analyzed the results of variability testing on 
more modem as-rolled steels that were generally of higher 
minimum yield strength steels and also compared those results 
statistically to the previous surveys. 
X2.3 This specification contains no requirements applicable 
to product tension tests; conformance to the applicable product 
specification is determined on the basis of tests performed at 
the place of manufacture or processing prior to shipment, 
unless otherwise specified. 
X2.4 A task group of ASTM Subcommittee A0l.02 has 
determined, based on review of the earlier AISI data, that the 
variation in tensile prope1ties of plates and structural shapes 
can be expressed as a function of specified requirements: one 
standard deviation equals approximately 4 % of required ten­
sile strength, 8 % of required yield strength, and 3 percentage 
points of required elongation. The January 2003 survey re­
sulted in similar findings. 
X2.5 Acceptance criteria for product testing based upon 
these values, either below the minimum or above the maximum 
allowed by the applicable product specification, are generally 
acceptable to manufacturers. Such tolerances could be consid­
ered by users of structural products as a reasonable basis for 
acceptance of structural products that, due to their inherent 
variability, deviate from the applicable product specification 
requirements when subjected to product tension testing. 
X3. WELDABILITY OF STEEL 
X3. l Weldability is a term that usually refers to the relative 
ease with which a metal can be welded using conventional 
practice. Difficulties arise in steel when the cooling rates 
associated with weld thermal cycles produce microstructures 
(for example, martensite) that are susceptible to brittle fracture 
or, more commonly, hydrogen-induced (or cold) cracking. 
(Solidification or hot cracking is a relatively rare phenomenon 
that will not be addressed here. See Randall for further 
information.) 
X3.2 The relative sensitivity of steels to forming cold 
cracking microstructures is called hardenability and can be 
measured in a number of ways. Perhaps the most popular 
method of assessing this is by the carbon equivalent (CE) 
formula, which attempts to equate the relative hardening 
contributions of a steel's constituent elements (for example, 
64 
manganese, vanadium) to an equivalent amount of carbon, 
which is the most significant hardening agent. The most 
popular formula is the International Institute of Welding (IIW) 
equation presented in S31.2, which has been found suitable for 
predicting hardenability in a wide range of commonly used 
carbon-manganese and low alloy steels. 
X3.3 It should be noted, however, that for the current 
generation oflow carbon ( <0.10 % ) low alloy steels that derive 
strength from a combination of microalloys and thermal 
processing methods the use of other formulae may more 
accurately assess hardenability and cold cracking sensitivity. 
X3.4 For a vast number of common structural applications it 
is unnecessary to specify the use of CE limits. However, in 