ASME BPVC.11.A-2025 SA-609 /SA·609M 
10.2.3 Indications producing a continuous response 
equal to or greater than the DAC with a dimension 
exceeding the maximum length shown for the applicable 
quality level shall be unacceptable. 
10.2.4 Other criteria agreed upon between the pur­
chaser and the manufacturer. 
10.3 Other means may be used to establish the validity 
of a rejection based on ultrasonic inspection. 
NOTE 4 - The areas for the ultrasonic quality levels in Table 2 of 
Practice A 609 I A 609M refer to the surface area on the casting over 
which a continuous indication exceeding the DAC is maintained. 
NOTE 5 - Areas are to be measured from dimensions of the movement 
of the search unit by outlining locations where the amplitude of the 
indication is 100% of the DAC or where the back reflection is reduced 
by 75%, using the center of the search unit as a reference point to establish 
the outline of the indication area. 
NOTE 6 - In certain castings, because of very long metal path distances 
or curvature of the examination surfaces, the surface area over which a 
given discontinuity is detected may be considerably larger or smaller 
than the actual area of the discontinuity in the casting; in such cases, 
other criteria that incorporate a consideration of beam angles or beam 
spread must be used for realistic evaluation of the discontinuity. 
PROCEDURE B - BACK-WALL REFLECTION 
CALIBRATION PROCEDURE 
11. Apparatus 
11.1 Apparatus shall be kept on a regular six month 
maintenance cycle during which, as a minimum require­
ment, the vertical and horizontal linearities, sensitivity, 
and resolution shall be established in accordance with the 
requirements of Practice E 317. 
11.2 Search Units - Ceramic element transducers not 
exceeding 1.25 in. [82 mm] diameter or 1 in. 2 [25 mm 2 ] 
shall be used. 
11.3 Search Units Facing-A soft urethane membrane 
or neoprene sheet, approximately 0.025 in. [0.64 mm] 
thick, may be used to improve coupling and minimize 
transducer wear caused by casting surface roughness. 
11.4 Calibration/Testing -The same system, includ­
ing the urethane membrane, used for calibration shall be 
used to inspect the casting. 
11.5 Other Inspections - Other frequencies and type 
search units may be used for obtaining additional informa­
tion and pinpointing of individual indications. 
11.6 Couplant - A suitable liquid couplant, such as 
clean SAE 30 motor oil or similar commercial ultrasonic 
couplant, shall be used to couple the search unit to the test 
surface. Other couplants may be used when agreed upon 
between the purchaser and supplier. 
11.7 Reference Standards - Reference standards in 
accordance with Fig. 3 shall be used to calibrate the instru­
ment for inspecting machined and cast surfaces. Reference 
standards shall be flaw free and machined within tolerances 
indicated. 
12. Ultrasonic Instrument 
12.1 Type - Pulsed ultrasonic reflection instrument 
capable of generating, receiving, and amplifying frequen­
cies of 1 MHz to 5 MHz shall be used for testing. 
12.2 Voltage - Line voltage shall be suitably regulated 
by constant voltage equipment and metal housing must be 
grounded to prevent electric shock. 
12.3 Linearity - The instrument must provide a linear 
presentation (within ±5%) of at least 1.5 in. [40 mm] sweep 
to peak (S/P). 
12.4 Calibrated Gain Control of Attenuator - The 
instrument shall contain a calibrated gain control or signal 
attenuator ( accurate within ± 10%) which will allow indica­
tions beyond the linear range of the instrument to be mea­
sured. 
12.5 Time-Corrected Gain - The instrument shall be 
equipped to compensate for signal decay with distance. A 
method should be available to equalize signal response at 
different depths. 
13. Qualification 
13.1 The requirements for pre-production qualification 
are as follows: 
13.1.1 Personnel - The personnel qualification 
requirements of SNT-TC- lA are applicable. Other person­
nel qualification requirement documents may be used when 
agreed upon between the purchaser and the supplier. Rec­
ords of all personnel shall be available to customers upon 
request. 
13.1.2 Equipment- The equipment shall be capable 
of meeting the requirements in Section 12. 
14. Preparation 
14.1 Time of Inspection - The final ultrasonic accept­
ance inspection shall be performed after at least an austeni­
tizing heat treatment and preferably after machining. In 
order to avoid time loss in production, acceptance inspec­
tion of cast surfaces may be done prior to machining. 
Machined surfaces shall be acceptance inspected as soon 
as possible after machining. Repair welds may be inspected 
before the postweld heat treatment. 
1037 