SA-455/SA-455M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Ve$sel Plates, Carbon Steel, High-Strength 
Manganese 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers high-tensile strength carbon­
manganese steel plates intended for welded pressure vessels. 
1.2 This steel is usually made to a semi-killed or capped 
deoxidation practice; however, at the purchaser's or the steel 
producer's option, the steel may be made silicon-killed or 
aluminum-killed. 
1.3 The maximum thickness of plates furnished under this 
specification shall be¾ in. [20 mm]. 
1.4 For plates produced from coil and furnished without 
heat treatment or with stress relieving only, the additional 
requirements, including additional testing requirements and the 
reporting of additional test results, of Specification A20/ A20M 
apply. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this material specification shall 
conform to Specification A20/A20M. These requirements out-
line tl1e testing and retesting methods and procedures, permit­
ted variations in dimensions, and mass, quality and repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/ A20M. 
3.3 Coils are excluded from qualification to this specifica­
tion until they are processed into finished plates. Plates 
produced from coil means plates that have been cut to 
individual lengths from coil. The processor directly controls, or 
is responsible for, the operations involved in the processing of 
coils into finished plates. Such operations include decoiling, 
leveling, cutting to length, testing, inspection, conditioning, 
heat treatment (if applicable), packaging, marking, loading for 
shipment, and certification. 
NoTE 1-For plates produced from coil and furnished without heat 
treatment or with stress relieving only, three test results are reported for 
each qualifying coil. Additional requirements regarding plates from coil 
are described in Specification A20/A20M. 
3.4 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Heat Treatment 
4.1 Plates are normally supplied in the as-rolled condition. 
The plates may be ordered normalized or stress relieved, or 
both. 
764 
5. Chemical Composition 
5.1 The steel shall conform to the chemical requirements 
given in Table 1. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 Tension Test-The plates, as represented by the tension 
test specimens, shall conform to the requirements given in 
Table 2. 
7. Keywords 
7.1 carbon steel; high-strength steel plate for pressure pur­
poses; welded pressure vessels 