SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/A568M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Width, in. 
All WidthsA,a 
Width, mm 
All WidthsA,a 
Thickness, in. 
Through 0.142 
Thickness, mm 
Through 4.0 
A Cold-rolled sheet coils and cut lengths, slit from wider coils with cut edge (only) 
and in thicknesses through 0.142 in. [4.0 mm] carbon 0.25 % maximum by cast 
analysis. 
8 When no special edge or finish (other than matte, commercial bright, or luster 
finish) or single strand rolling of widths, or both under 24 in. [600 mm] is not 
specified or required. 
(2) Cold-rolled high-strength low-alloy sheet is commonly 
classified by size as follows: 
Width, in. 
Through 12 A 
Over 12 8 
Width, mm 
To 300, inclA 
Over300 8 
Thickness, in. 
0.D19 through 0.082 
0.020 and over 
Thickness, mm 
0.5 to 2.0, incl 
0.5 and Over 
A Cold-rolled sheet coils and cut lengths, slit from wider coils with cut edge (only) 
and in thicknesses 0.019 in. [0.5 mm] through 0.082 in. [2.0 mm] carbon 0.25 % 
maximum by cast analysis. 
8 When no special edge or finish (other than matte, commercial bright, or luster 
finish) or single strand rolling of widths, or both under 24 in. [600 mm] is not 
specified or required. 
3.1.6.1 Discussion-Steel products are available in various 
thickness, width, and length combinations depending upon 
equipment and processing capabilities of various manufactur­
ers and processors. Historic limitations of a product based upon 
dimensions (thickness, width, and length) do not take into 
account current production and processing capabilities. To 
qualify any product for a particular product specification 
requires all appropriate and necessary tests be performed and 
that the results meet the limits prescribed in that product 
specification. If the necessary tests required by a product 
specification cannot be conducted, the product cannot be 
qualified to that specification. This general requirements speci­
fication contains permitted variations for the commonly avail­
able sizes. Permitted variations for other sizes are subject to 
agreement between the customer and the manufacturer or 
processor, whichever is applicable. 
3.1.7 retests, n-additional test, or tests, made from the 
original material when the original test did not meet the 
appropriate acceptance criteria required by a product specifi­
cation and the failure was mechauical in natures as described in 
Section 11. 
3.1.8 resample, n-additional test or tests made when the 
test on the original sample did not meet the appropriate 
acceptance criteria required by the product specification, but 
possibly requiring that the material in question have an 
appropriate amount discarded prior to securing the new sample 
or samples. 
3.1.9 steel manufacturer, n-the orgauization that directly 
controls or is responsible for the melting and refining of steel 
and the conversion of that steel into semifinished steel products 
known as slabs either through continuous casting, conventional 
or compact methods, or ingot casting and subsequent conver­
sion of the ingots to slabs, and for one or more additional 
operations such as testing, marking, loading for shipment, and 
certification. 
3.1.10 coil processor, n-the orgauization that directly con­
trols or is responsible for operations involved in processing the 
coil such as leveling, cutting to length, testing, inspection, 
blanking, slitting, pickling, cold rolling (cold reduction), heat 
treating, temper rolling, coating, packaging, marking, loading 
for shipment, and certification. 
3 .1.10.1 Discussion-The processing operations need not be 
controlled by the orgauization that hot rolls the slab into a coil. 
If only one organization controls or is responsible for (or both) 
the hot-rolling and processing operations, that organization is 
termed the manufacturer. If more than one organization con­
trols or is responsible for (or both) hot-rolling and processing 
operations, the organization that controls and is responsible for 
the hot-rolling is termed the hot roll manufacturer and the 
organization or organizations controlling and responsible for 
the processing operations is/are termed the processor or pro­
cessors. Likewise, one organization may be the manufacturer 
of the hot roll coil and another the manufacturer of the cold roll 
coil. In such case, the orgauization responsible for the conver­
sion of the hot roll coil to a cold roll coil and other processing 
operations will also be termed the cold roll manufacturer and 
organizations performing additional processing operations to 
the cold roll coil will be termed the coil processor or coil 
processors. 
3.1.11 hot roll manufacturer, n-the organization that di­
rectly controls or is responsible for the conversion of steel 
slabs, by hot-rolling into coils, and for one or more additional 
operations such as leveling, cutting to length, testing, 
inspection, blanking, slitting, pickling, cold rolling, heat 
treating, coating, packaging, marking, loading for shipment, 
and certification. 
3.1.12 cold roll manufacturer, n-the orgauization that di­
rectly controls or is responsible for the conversion of hot roll 
coils into cold roll coils, and for one or more additional 
operations such as pickling, annealing, temper rolling, slitting, 
cutting to length, testing, inspection, blanking, coating, 
packaging, marking, loading for shipment, and certification. 
3.2 Refer to Terminology A941 for additional definitions of 
terms used in this standard. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
980 
4.1 Unless otherwise specified, hot-rolled material shall be 
furnished hot-rolled, not annealed, not pickled. 
4.2 Coil breaks, stretcher strains, and fluting can occur 
during the user's processing of hot-rolled or hot-rolled pickled 
sheet. When any of these features are detrimental to the 
application, the manufacturer shall be notified at time of 
ordering in order to properly process the sheet. 
4.3 Cold-rolled carbon steel sheet is available as discussed 
in 10.2, 10.3, and in Table 1. 
4.4 Unless specified as a full-hard product, cold-rolled sheet 
is annealed after being cold reduced to thickness. The 
annealed, cold-rolled sheet can be used as annealed last (dead 
soft) for unexposed end-use applications. When cold-rolled 
sheet is used for unexposed applications and coil breaks are a 
hazard in uncoiling, it may be necessary to further process the 
material. In this case the manufacturer should be consulted. 