SA-352/SA-352M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
validated for use under the construction codes. 
Xl.3 No assurance is offered that compliance with these 
requirements will provide a material that will resist brittle 
failure under all possible conditions of service to as low as the 
specified impact test temperature. It may eventually be possible 
that other types of tests will provide greater assurance of 
material suitability for low-temperature services, but at this 
time there is insufficient knowledge for agreement and general 
acceptance of some test other than the Charpy impact test. 
X 1.4 Attention is directed to the following subjects which 
have a bearing on the value of Charpy impact tests: 
Xl .4.1 Much of the original work in the field of notch 
toughness was done on wrought materials that had definite 
directional grain flow parallel to the axis of the bar, and the 
specimens were taken with the longitudinal axis of the speci­
men parallel to the axis of the bar. It has been well established 
that the results from impact of tbe same piece of steel 
may vary considerably, depending upon the orientation of the 
specimen to the direction of grain flow. Although it is known 
that specimens taken with their axis transverse to the direction 
of grain flow will have lower values depending on the amount 
of cross rolling or forging the material has received, there were 
insufficient test data to permit specific mandatory requirements 
on the impact properties of wrought materials determined in 
any direction other than parallel to the direction of grain flow. 
Except in special cases this limitation still exists. 
Xl .4.2 It is acknowledged that notched bar impact tests are 
of a qualitative rather than a quantitative nature. As yet, except 
possibly for ship steel, no satisfactory correlation has been 
possible between tests on small standardization specimens and 
the behavior of a structural under any given conditions of 
loading in service. The required values as determined by the 
Charpy V-notch impact test are arbitrary values which can be 
met by carbon and low-alloy constructional steels when tested 
at temperatures above that where their behavior changes from 
tough to brittle as judged by this test. The acceptability of this 
dividing line seems to be justified by service experience on 
carbon and certain low-alloy steels. 
Xl.4.3 The literature shows that notched bar impact 
strengths in constructional steels differ widely in accordance 
with many variables. Consequently, there is bound to be some 
discrepancy between an individual test bar and the entire part 
that it represents. No system of test bar selection can guarantee 
that every sample would meet minimum requirements. Test bar 
selection must be a compromise to generally represent the 
product. 
552 
Xl .4.4 The committees responsible for these material speci­
fications have had as an objective the selection of test speci­
mens that will represent the properties of the materials, in the 
form in which they will be used. However, accomplishment of 
this objective has only partially been realized. At this time it is 
impossible to select samples for testing that will represent all 
parts and sizes of the product involved. Particularly in fen'itic 
steels, it is impractical to remove the test bars from heavy 
sections over about 4 in. [100 mm] and expect them to show 
results as high as tests from light sections of the same material. 
The practical commercial limits on the amount of testing 
possible, as well as limits to knowledge of what results may be 
expected from testing in non-standard locations, have been 
considered in drafting these specifications. With time and 
increased knowledge, it may be possible to require more 
representative testing. 