SA-609 /SA-609M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
6.3 The ultrasonic examination shall be conducted prior 
to machining that prevents an effective examination of the 
casting. 
7. Test Conditions 
7.1 To assure complete coverage of the specified cast­
ing section, each pass of the search unit shall overlap by 
at least 10% of the width of the transducer. 
7.2 The rate of scanning shall not exceed 6 in.ls 
(150 mm/s). 
7.3 The ultrasonic beam shall be introduced perpendic­
ular to the examination surface. 
8. Procedure 
8.1 Adjust the instrument controls to position the first 
back reflection for the thickness to be tested at least one 
half of the distance across the cathode ray tube. 
8.2 Using the set of reference blocks spanning the 
thickness of the casting being inspected, mark the flat­
bottom hole indication height for each of the applicable 
blocks on the cathode ray tube shield. Draw a curve through 
these marks on the screen or on suitable graph paper. The 
maximum signal amplitude for the test blocks used shall 
peak at approximately three-fomths of the screen height 
above the sweep by use of the attenuator. This curve shall 
be referred to as the 100% distance amplitude correction 
(DAC) curve. If the attenuation of ultrasound in the casting 
thickness being examined is such that the system's dynamic 
range is exceeded, segmented DAC curves are permitted. 
8.3 The casting examination surface will normally be 
rougher than that of the test blocks; consequently, employ 
a transfer mechanism to provide approximate compensa­
tion. In order to accomplish this, first select a region of 
the casting that has parallel walls and a surface condition 
representative of the rest of the casting as a transfer point. 
Next, select the test block whose overall length, C (Fig. 
1), most closely matches the reflection amplitude through 
the block length. Place the search unit on the casting at 
tl1e transfer point and adjust the instrument gain until the 
back reflection amplitude through the casting matches that 
through the test block. Using this transfer technique, the 
examination sensitivity in the casting may be expected to 
be within ±30% or less of that given by the test blocks. 
8.4 Do not change those instrument controls and the 
test frequency set during calibration, except the attenuator, 
or calibrated gain control, during acceptance examination 
of a given thickness of the casting. Make a periodic calibra­
tion during the inspection by checking the amplitude of 
response from the¼ in. (6.4 mm) diameter flat-bottom hole 
in the test block utilized for the transfer. 
NOTE 3 - The attenuator or calibrated gain control may be used to 
change the signal amplitude during examination to permit small amplitude 
signals to be more readily detected. Signal evaluation is made by returning 
the attenuator or calibrated gain control to its original setting. 
8.5 During examination of areas of the casting having 
parallel walls, recheck areas showing 75% or greater loss 
of back reflection to determine whether loss of back reflec­
tion is due to poor contact, insufficient couplant, misori­
ented discontinuity, etc. If the reason for loss of back 
reflection is not evident, consider the area questionable 
and further investigate. 
9. Report 
9.1 The manufacturer's report of final ultrasonic exami­
nation shall contain the following data and shall be fur­
nished to the purchaser: 
9.1.1 The total number, location, amplitude, and area 
when possible to delineate boundaries by monitoring the 
movement of the center of the search unit of all indications 
equal to or greater than 100% of the DAC. 
9.1.2 Questionable areas from 8.5 that, upon fmther 
investigation, are determined to be caused by discontinu­
ities. 
9.1.3 The examination frequency, type of instrument, 
types of search units employed, couplant, manufacturer's 
identifying numbers, purchaser's order number, and data 
and authorized signature. 
9.1.4 A sketch showing the physical outline of the 
casting, including dimensions of all areas not inspected 
due to geometric configuration, with the location and sizes 
of all indications in accordance with 9.1.1 and 9.1.2. 
10. Acceptance Standards 
10.1 This practice is intended for application to castings 
with a wide variety of sizes, shapes, compositions, melting 
processes, foundry practices, and applications. Therefore, 
it is impractical to specify an ultrasonic quality level that 
would be universally applicable to such a diversity of prod­
ucts. Ultrasonic acceptance or rejection criteria for individ­
ual castings should be based on a realistic appraisal of 
service requirements and the quality that can normally be 
obtained in production of the particular type of casting. 
10.2 Acceptance quality levels shall be established 
between the purchaser and the manufacturer on the basis 
of one or more of the following criteria: 
10.2.1 No indication equal to or greater than the 
DAC over an area specified for the applicable quality level 
of Table 2. 
10.2.2 No reduction of back reflection of 75% or 
greater that has been determined to be caused by a disconti­
nuity over an area specified for the applicable quality level 
of Table 2. 
1036 