\ 
~ 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-484/SA-484M 
the option of the manufacturer. Marking shall be made by hot 
stamping, cold stamping, or painting of bars, or by marking 
tags attached to bundles, lifts, or boxes. 
18.1.2 Forgings shall be legibly die stamped with the 
manufacturer's symbol or name, material specification 
designation, grade or type, and heat identification. When die 
stamping is not permitted by the purchaser, electric pencil or 
electro-etching shall be used. 
18.2 Government Procurement: 
18.2.1 When specified in the contract or order, and for direct 
procurement by or direct shipment to the government, marking 
for shipment, in addition to any requirements specified in the 
contract or order, shall be in accordance with MIL-STD-129 
for military agencies and in accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123 
for civil agencies. 
18.2.2 For government procurement by the Defense Supply 
Agency, bars and shapes shall be marked continuously for 
identification in accordance with Fed. Std. No. 183. 
19. Packaging and Package Marking 
19.1 Unless otherwise specified, the bars and shapes shall be 
packaged and loaded in accordance with Practices A700. 
19.2 When specified in the contract or order, and for direct 
procurement by or direct shipment to the government, when 
Level A is specified, preservation, packaging, and packing shall 
be in accordance with the Level A requirements of MIL-STD-
163 _ 
20. Keywords 
20.1 general delivery requirements; stainless steel bars; 
stainless steel billets; stainless steel forgings; stainless steel 
shapes 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al.1 New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification, subject to the 
following conditions: 
Al. 1. 1 The application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
Al.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable specification. Test data from a 
minimum of three test lots, as defined by the specification, each 
from a different heat, • shall be furnished. 
Al. 1 .4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
Al.1.5 The application shall state whether the new grade is 
covered by patent. 
A2. REQUIREMENTS FOR INTRODUCTION OF MATERIALS FROM OTHER A0l OR B02.07 SPECIFICATIONS 
A2. l Wrought materials that are already covered by an­
other AOl or B02.07 specification may be proposed for 
inclusion in specifications referencing this specification of 
general requirements subject to the following conditions: 
A2.1.1 Application for the addition of a grade that is already 
covered in another AOl or B02.07 specification shall be made 
to the chair of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over that 
the specification to which the grade is to be added. 
825 
A2.1.2 The chemical requirements, the specified mechani­
cal properties, and the heat treatment requirements of the grade 
being added shall be the same as those for the grade in the AO 1 
or B02.07 specification in which the grade is presently covered. 
A2. l.3 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
A2.1.4 The application shall state whether or not the grade 
is covered by patent. 