ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-703/SA-703M 
16.4 A manufacturer's certification printed from or used in 
electronic form from an electronic data interchange (EDI) 
transmission shall be regarded as having the same validity as a 
counterpart printed in the certifier's facility, provided it con­
forms to any existing EDI agreement between the purchaser 
and the supplier. 
17. Product Marking 
17 .1 Castings shall be marked for material identification 
with grade symbols (WCB, WC9, CF8M, and so forth). In 
addition, heat numbers, or serial numbers that are traceable to 
heat numbers, shall be marked on all pressure-containing 
castings individually weighing 50 lb [22. 7 kg] or more. 
Pressure-containing castings weighing less than 50 lb [22.7 kg] 
shall be marked with either the heat number or a lot number 
that will identify the casting as to the month in which it was 
poured. Marking shall be in such position as not to injure the 
usefulness of the casting. 
17 .2 On castings for which impact property requirements 
are specified, stamped markings using low-stress stamps shall 
be on a raised pad when such pad can be made a part of the 
castings. 
17.3 Castings shall be marked with the manufacturer's 
identification or symbol except when other provisions have 
been made between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
18. Keywords 
18.1 castings; general requirements; pressure containing; 
steel 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by the purchaser. Details of the 
supplementary requirements shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer and purchaser. The 
specified tests shall be performed by the manufacturer prior to shipment of the castings. 
Sl. Unspecified Elements 
S 1. 1 Limits may be established for elements not specified 
for the grade ordered by agreement between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. The results of the analysis for the agreed-upon 
elements shall be reported. 
S2. Destruction Tests 
S2.1 Purchaser may select representative castings from each 
heat, and cut up and etch, or otherwise prepare, the sections for 
examination for internal defects. Should injurious defects be 
found that evidence unsound steel or faulty foundry technique, 
all the castings made from that particular pattern, heat, and heat 
treatment charge may be rejected. All the rejected castings, 
including those cut up, shall be replaced by the manufacturer 
without charge. 
S3. Bend Test 
S3.1 One bend test shall be made from a test coupon from 
each heat in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions 
A370, and shall be machined to a 1 by ½-in. [25 by 13-mm] 
section with corners rounded to a radius not over 1/16 in. 
[1.6 mm]. When material is ordered to an M-suffix (SI units) 
product standard, the bend test requirements shall be in 
accordance with Test Methods A1058. 
S3.2 The specimen shall withstand being bent longitudi­
nally at room temperature through an angle of 90° about a pin, 
the diameter of which shall be the specimen thickness for 
carbon steels, and 1 in. [25 mm] for other steels. The specimen 
shall show no cracks on the outside of the bent portion of the 
specimen. 
S3.3 Bend test specimens may be cut from heat-treated 
castings instead of from test specimens when agreed upon 
between manufacturer and purchaser. 
S3.4 If any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws, it may be discarded and another specimen 
substituted from the same heat. 
S4. Magnetic Particle Inspection 
S4.1 Castings shall be examined for surface and near­
surface discontinuities by magnetic particle inspection. The 
examination shall be in accordance with Guide E709, and types 
and degrees of discontinuities considered shall be judged by 
Reference Photographs E125. Extent of examination, time of 
examination, and basis for acceptance shall • be agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and purchaser. A specification which 
may be used as a basis for such agreement is MSS SP 53. 
S4.2 Personnel performing the examination shall be quali­
fied in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S5. Radiographic Inspection 
S5.1 Castings shall be examined for internal defects by 
means of X-rays or gamma rays. The procedure shall be in 
accordance with Guide E94/E94M, and types and degrees of 
discontinuities considered shall be judged by Reference Radio­
graphs E446, E186, or E280. Extent of examination and basis 
for acceptance shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. A specification that may be used as a basis for 
such agreement is MSS SP 54. 
S5.2 Radiographic examination of castings may be per­
formed before or after any heat treatment. 
S5.3 Personnel performing the examination shall be quali­
fied in accordance with an acceptable written practice. 
S6. Liquid Penetrant Inspection 
S6. l Castings shall be examined for surface discontinuities 
by means of liquid penetrant inspection. The examination shall 
be in accordance with Practice E165/El65M. Areas to be 
inspected, time of inspection, methods and types of liquid 
1157 