SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/ A568M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
MINOR. STRAI!\I, Pel'<:flnt (ei) 
FIG. X4.1 Forming Limit Curve 
the forming limit curve is lower. The magnitude of the 
downgrade displacement is specific to each material; therefore, 
current material information should be consulted to determine 
placement of the forming limit curve. 
X4.3 Procedure 
X4.3.l Obtain a sheet sample of "known quality," the sheet 
quality being established by either supplier designation, con­
sumer purchase order, or most preferred tensile data obtained 
from a companion sheet sample. 
X4.3.2 Obtain or prepare a negative on stencil with selected 
circles in a uniform pattern. The circles may be 2.5 to 25.0 mm 
in diameter; the most convenient diameter is 5.0 mm because 
it is easy to read and the gauge spacing is short enough to show 
the maximum strain in a specific location on the part. 
X4.3.3 The sheet metal blanks should be cleaned to remove 
excess oil and dirt; however, some precoated sheets can be 
etched without removing the coating. The area(s) to be etched 
should be detem1ined from observation of panels previously 
formed; generally, the area that has a split problem is selected 
for etching. Normally, the convex side of the radius is gridded. 
If sufficient time is available, the entire blank may be etched, 
since valuable information can be obtained about the move­
ment of metal in stamping a part when strains can be evaluated 
in what may appear to be noncritical areas. Additionally, for 
complex shapes it may be desirable to etch both surfaces of 
blanks so that the strains that occur in reverse draws can be 
determined. 
X4.3.4 The sheet metal blanks may be etched by a photo­
graphic or electrochemical method. In the former method of 
photosensitive solution, for example, 50 % Kodak Photo Resist 
(KPR) emulsion and 50 % KPR-thinner, is sprayed onto the 
sheet. The emulsion is dried by baking the sheet at 65 °C for 
15 min or by just standing it for several hours at room 
temperature in a dark room. The latter should be employed in 
materials that age and, hence, become stronger when baked at 
65 °C. The negative is placed on the emulsion, held intimately 
in contact with the sheet, and exposed to a strong ultraviolet 
light source for 1 to 1 ½ min. The sheet is developed for 30 to 
45 s in KPR developer, rinsed with water, and sprayed with 
alcohol to set the resist. It is again rinsed with water and then 
sprayed with KPR black dye to reveal the etched circles. 
X4.3.5 In the electrochemical method, the etch pad is 
saturated with an appropriate electrolyte. Various electrolytes 
are available from suppliers of the etching equipment. Some 
electrolytes are more effective than others for etching certain 
surfaces, such as terne plate and other metallic coated steels. A 
mst-inhibiting solution is preferred for steel sheets. 
X4.3.6 A ground clamp for the transformer of suitable 
amperage (10 to 50 A is usually used) is fastened to the blank 
1002 