ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-568/SA-568M (ASTM A568/A568M) 
TABLE A1.17 Flatness Tolerances of Cold-Rolled Sheet Cut 
Length (All Designations)A 
NoTE 1-This table does not apply when product is ordered full hard, 
to a hardness range or "annealed last" ( dead soft). 
NOTE 2-This table applies to lengths cut from coils, when adequate 
flattening measures are petformed to remove all undesirable flatness 
conditions, including, but not limited to, coil set. 
Specified Specified Width, mm Flatness Tolerance, mm Speci-
fied Yield Point, min, MPa 
Thickness, 
Under 310 310 to 340 mm Over Through MPa MPa 8 
Through 1.0 900 10 20 
900 1500 15 30 
1500 20 40 
Over 1.0 900 8 20 
900 1500 10 20 
1500 1800 15 30 
1800 20 40 
A Maximum deviation from a horizontal flat surface. 
8 Tolerances for high-strength, low-alloy steel with specified minimum yield point in 
excess of 340 MPa are subject to negotiation. 
APPENDIXES 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. AGING EFFECTS ON FORMABILITY OF COLD-ROLLED CARBON-STEEL SHEET PRODUCTS 
Xl.1 Cold-rolled carbon-steel sheet products exhibit maxi­
mum formability in the annealed last, or dead-soft, condition. 
However, many sheet products are not suitable for exposed 
applications in the dead-soft condition because Luder's lines 
(sometimes referred to as "stretcher strains" or "fluting") may 
develop during subsequent forming. This problem is avoided in 
most cases by temper rolling the sheet after annealing. After 
temper rolling, however, some sheet products are susceptible to 
aging. Aging refers to a gradual increase in yield strength and 
corresponding decrease in ductility during storage after temper 
rolling. Aging always has a negative effect on formability and, 
when aging leads to the redevelopment of an upper yield point, 
lt in renewed susce tibilit to fluting. 
Xl .2 Aging can occur when interstitial solute atoms, carbon 
or nitrogen, are present in the steel. Solute carbon or nitrogen 
atoms are those not chemically combined with other elements 
in the steel (as carbides or nitrides, for example). Over time, 
these carbon or nitrogen interstitial solute atoms diffuse to 
crystalline imperfections within the steel and, in so doing, give 
rise to aging. The extent to which aging occurs depends on the 
interstitial solute level and the combination of temperature and 
time to which the steel is exposed after temper rolling. In 
general, higher interstitial solute levels result in larger strength 
increases during storage; the rate of aging increases with 
increasing temperature. As described as follows, the final 
interstitial solute level and aging characteristics depend on the 
chemical composition of the steel as well as specific sheet­
processing methods used by the steel producer. 
Xl .3 Low-Carbon Steels-In conventional aluminum-killed 
low-carbon steels, the level of interstitial solute is affected 
mainly through the fonnation of aluminum nitride and iron 
carbides within the steel during processing, which is influenced 
by the manner in which annealing is performed. 
Xl.3.1 Many sheet products are annealed in batches of 
large, tightly wound coils. During heating, any solute nitrogen 
present in the full-hard sheet combines with aluminum to form 
aluminum nitride. Subsequent cooling is very slow and allows 
essentially all of the carbon to precipitate as iron carbide. Final 
interstitial solute levels are very low and, as a result, batch­
annealed low-carbon steels have excellent resistance to aging. 
Xl.3.1.1 Dee drawing steel (DDS) sheet typically is batch-
annealed and has excellent aging resistance. 1 temper 
rolling, DDS sheet is suitable for use in many exposed 
applications with severe forming requirements. 
Xl.3.2 Cold-rolled low-carbon steels are sometimes pro­
cessed in a continuous annealing line, in which the full-hard 
sheet is uncoiled, passed through an annealing furnace, and 
then rewound in a continuous manner. Heating and cooling 
rates are much higher than those found in batch annealing. The 
faster cooling, in particular, results in higher levels of intersti­
tial solute in the product as compared with batch annealing. 
The manner in which the sheet is cooled can be controlled to 
minimize the solute carbon level, and temper rolling is effec­
tive for reducing fluting tendencies. However, continuous­
annealed low-carbon steels are more prone to subsequent aging 
than batch-annealed steels. 
997 