ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-989 /SA-989M 
3.1.1 can, n-the container used to encapsulate the powder 
during the pressure consolidation process that is removed 
partially or fully from the final part. 
3.1.2 compact, n-the consolidated powder from one can 
that may be used to make one or more parts. 
3.1.3 consolidation, n-the bonding of adjacent powder 
particles in a compact under pressure by heating to a tempera­
ture below the melting point of the powder. 
3.1.4 fill stem, n-the part of the compact used to fill the can 
that is not usually integral to the part produced. 
3.1.5 hot isostatic-pressing, n-a process for simultaneously 
heating and forming a compact in which the powder is 
contained in a sealed formable enclosure, usually made from 
metal, and the so-contained powder is subjected to equal 
pressure from all directions at a temperature high enough to 
permit plastic deformation and consolidation of the powder 
particles to take place. 
3.1.6 lot, n-a number of parts produced from a single 
powder blend following the same manufacturing conditions. 
3.1.7 part, n-a single item coming from a compact, either 
prior to or after machining. 
3.1.8 powder blend, n-a homogeneous mixture of powder 
from one or more heats of the same grade. 
3.1.9 rough part, n-the part prior to final machining. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 It is the responsibility of the purchaser to specify in the 
purchase order all requirements that are necessary for material 
ordered under this specification. Such requirements may 
include, but are not limited to, the following: 
4.1.1 Quantity (weight or number of parts). 
4.1.2 Name of material or UNS number. 
4.1.3 ASTM designation and year of issue. 
4.1.4 Dimensions (tolerances and surface finishes). 
4.1.5 Microstructure examination, if required (5.1.5). 
4.1.6 Inspection (14.1). 
4.1.7 Whether rough part or finished machined part (8.2.2). 
4.1.8 Supplementary requirements, if any. 
4.1.9 Additional requirements (see 7.2.1 and 16.1). 
4.1.10 Requirement, if any, that the manufacturer shall 
submit drawings for approval showing the shape of the rough 
part before machining and the exact location of test specimen 
material (see 9.3.1). 
5. Materials and Manufacture 
5.1 Manufacturing Practice: 
5.1.1 Powder should be protected during storage to prevent 
the detrimental pick-up of oxygen and other contaminants. 
5.1.2 Compacts shall be manufactured by placing a single 
powder blend into a can, evacuating the can, and sealing it. The 
can material shall be selected to ensure that it has no deleteri­
ous effect on the final product. The entire assembly shall be 
heated and placed under sufficient pressure for a sufficient 
period of time to ensure that the final consolidated part meets 
the density requirements of 8.1.2.1. One or more parts shall be 
machined from a single compact. 
5 .1.3 The powder shall be prealloyed and made by a melting 
method capable of producing the specified chemical 
composition, such as but not limited to air or vacuum induction 
melting, followed by gas atomization. 
5 .1.4 When powder from more than one heat is used to 
make a blend, the heats shall be mixed thoroughly to ensure 
homogeneity. 
5 .1.5 The compact shall be sectioned and the microstmcture 
examined to check for porosity and other internal imperfec­
tions and shall meet the requirements of 8.1.3. The sample shall 
be taken from the fill stem or from a location in a part as agreed 
upon by the manufacturer and purchaser. 
5.1.6 Unless otherwise specified in the purchase order, the 
manufacturer shall remove the can material from the surfaces 
of the consolidated compacts by chemical or mechanical 
methods, such as by pickling or machining. This removal shall 
be done before or after heat treatment at the option of the 
manufacturer (see Note 1). 
Norn I-Often, it is advantageous to leave the can material in place 
nntil after heat treatment or further thermal processing of the consolidated 
compact. 
5.1.7 Supplementary Requirements S2, S4, S5, and S14 are 
mandatory. 
6. Chemical Composition 
6.1 The steel both as a blend and as a part shall conform to 
the requirements for chemical composition prescribed in Table 
1. Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751 shall apply. 
6.1.1 A representative sample of each blend of powder shall 
be analyzed by the manufacturer to determine the percentage of 
elements prescribed in Table 1. The blend shall conform to the 
chemical composition requirements prescribed in Table 1. 
6.1.2 When required by the purchaser, the chemical com­
position of a sample from one part from each lot of parts shall 
be determined by the manufacturer. The composition of the 
sample shall conform to the chemical composition require­
ments prescribed in Table 1. 
6.2 Addition of lead, selenium, or other unspecified ele­
ments for the purpose of improving the machinability of the 
compact shall not be permitted. 
6.3 The steel shall not contain an unspecified element, for 
the ordered grade, to the extent that the steel conforms to the 
requirements of another grade for which that element is a 
specified element having a required minimum content. 
7. Heat Treatment 
7.1 After hot isostatic-pressing, the compacts shall be an­
nealed prior to heat treating in accordance with the require­
ments of Table 2. At the option of the producer, this anneal 
shall be a separate operation following powder consolidation or 
shall be a part of the consolidation process. 
7.2 The alloy steels shall be heat treated in accordance with 
the requirements of 7 .1 and Table 2. 
7.2.1 Liquid Quenching-When agreed to by the purchaser, 
liquid quenching followed by tempering shall be permitted 
provided the temperatures in Table 2 for each grade are 
utilized. 
7.2.1.1 Marking-Parts that are liquid quenched and tem­
pered shall be marked "QT". 
1471 