SA-312/SA-312M (ASTM A312/A312M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
S4. Etching Tests 
S4.1 The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate portions of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 
and reasonably uniform material free of injurious laminations, 
cracks, and similar objectionable defects. If this supplementary 
requirement is specified, the number of tests per pipe required 
shall also be specified. If a specimen from any length shows 
objectionable defects, the length shall be rejected, subject to 
removal of the defective end and subsequent retests indicating 
the remainder of the length to be sound and reasonably uniform 
material. 
S5. Radiographic Examination 
S5.l The entire length of weld in each double welded pipe 
shall be radiographically examined, using X-radiation, in 
accordance with Paragraph UW-51 of Section VIII Division 1 
of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. In addition to 
the marking required by Section 13 each pipe shall be marked 
"RT" after the specification and grade. Requirements of S5 
shall be required in the certification. 
S6. Stabilizing Heat Treatment 
S6.1 Subsequent to the solution anneal required in 6.2, 
Grades TP309HCb, TP310HCb, TP321, TP321H, TP347, 
TP347H, TP348, and TP348H shall be given a stabilization 
heat treatment at a temperature lower than that used for the 
initial solution annealing heat treatment. The temperature of 
stabilization heat treatment shall be as agreed upon between the 
purchaser and vendor. 
S7. Intergranular Corrosion Test 
S7.l When specified, material shall pass intergranular cor­
rosion tests conducted by the manufacturer in accordance with 
Practices A262, Practice E. 
S7 .1.1 Practice E requires testing on the sensitized condi­
tion for low carbon or stabilized grades, and on the as-shipped 
condition for other grades. The applicability of this test and the 
preparation of the sample for testing for grades containing 
greater than 3 % molybdenum shall be as agreed by the 
purchaser and manufacturer. 
Norn S7.1-Practice E requires testing on the sensitized condition for 
low carbon or stabilized grades, and on the as-shipped condition for other 
grades. 
S7.2 A stabilization heat treatment in accordance with 
Supplementary Requirement S6 may be necessary and is 
permitted in order to meet this requirement for the grades 
containing titanium or columbium, particularly in their H 
versions. 
S8. Minimum Wall Pipe 
S8.1 When specified by the purchaser, pipe shall be fur­
nished on a minimum wall basis. The wall of such pipe shall 
not fall below the thickness specified. In addition to the 
marking required by Section 17, the pipe shall be marked S8. 
S9. Weld Decay Test 
S9 .1 When specified in the purchase order, one sample from 
each lot of pipe shall be subject to testing in a boiling solution 
of 50 % reagent grade hydrochloric acid and 50 % water. 
S9.2 The sample, of approximately 2-in. [50-mm] length, 
shall be prepared from a production length of pipe. Depending 
on the size of the pipe, it is permitted to section the sample 
longitudinally to allow it to fit in the Erlenmeyer flask. As a 
minimum, the tested sample shall include the entire weld and 
adjacent area and the full length of base metal 180° across from 
the weld. All burrs and sharp edges shall be removed by light 
grinding. Dust and grease shall be removed by cleaning with 
soap and water or other suitable solvents. 
S9.3 The hydrochloric acid solution shall be prepared by 
slowly adding reagent grade (approximately 37 %) hydrochlo­
ric acid to an equal volume of distilled water. 
Warning-Protect eyes and use rubber gloves when han­
dling acid. Mixing and testing shall be performed in a 
protective enclosure. 
S9.4 The test container shall be a 1-L Erlenmeyer flask 
equipped with ground-glass joints and an Ahline condenser. 
The volume of the solution shall be approximately 700 mL. 
S9.5 The thickness of the weld and the base metal 180° 
from the weld shall be measured near both ends of the sample. 
These measurements shall be made with a micrometer with an 
anvil shape suitable for measuring the thickness with an 
accuracy to at least 0.001 in. [0.025 mm]. 
S9.6 The sample sections, both weld and base metal, shall 
be immersed in the flask containing the solution. Boiling chips 
shall be added and the solution brought to a boil. Boiling shall 
be maintained through the duration of the test. The time of 
testing shall be that which is required to remove 40 to 60 % of 
the original base metal thickness (usually 2 h or less). If more 
than 60 % of the base metal thickness remains, it is permitted 
to terminate the test after 24 h. 
462 
S9.7 At the end of the test period, the samples shall be 
removed from the solution, rinsed with distilled water, and 
dried. 
S9.8 The thickness measurements as in S9.5 shall be re­
peated. The anvil shape of the micrometer used shall be 
suitable for measuring the minimum remaining thickness with 
an accuracy to at least 0.001 in. [0.025 mm]. 
S9.9 The corrosion ratio, R, shall be calculated as follows: 
W)l(B 0 - B) 
where: 
W 0 = average weld-metal thickness before the test, 
W = average weld-metal thickness after the test, 
B 0 = average base-metal thickness before the test, and 
B = average base-metal thickness after the test, 
S9.9.1 The corrosion ratio for HCW pipe shall be as 
specified in 11.5. 
S9.9.2 The corrosion ratio shall be 1.25 or less, or as further 
restricted in the purchase order, when the weld decay test is 
specified for welded (WLD) pipe. 