SA-106/SA-106M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
include the total footage; individual lengths of pipe need not be 
marked with footage. If not marked on the bundle tag, all 
required marking shall be on each length. 
25.2 When pipe sections are cut into shorter lengths by a 
subsequent processor for resale as material, the processor shall 
transfer complete identifying information, including the name 
or brand of the manufacturer to each unmarked cut length, or 
to metal tags securely attached to bundles of unmarked small 
diameter pipe. The same material designation shall be included 
with the information transferred, and the processor's name, 
trademark, or brand shall be added. 
25.3 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 25.1 
and 25.2, bar coding is acceptable as a supplementary identi­
fication method. The purchaser may specify in the order a 
specific bar coding system to be used. 
26. Government Procurement 
26.1 When specified in the contract, material shall be 
preserved, packaged, and packed in accordance with the 
requirements of MIL-STD-163. The applicable levels shall be 
as specified in the contract. Marking for the shipment of such 
material shall be in accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123 for civil 
agencies and MIL-STD-129 or Fed. Std. No. 183 if continuous 
marking is required for military agencies. 
26.2 Inspection-Unless otherwise specified in the contract, 
the producer is responsible for the performance of all inspec­
tion and test requirements specified herein. Except as otherwise 
specified in the contract, the producer shall use his own, or any 
other suitable facilities for the performance of the inspection 
and test requirements specified herein, unless disapproved by 
the purchaser. The purchaser shall have the right to perform 
any of the inspections and tests set forth in this specification 
where such inspections are deemed necessary to ensure that the 
material conforms to the prescribed requirements. 
27. Keywords 
27 .1 carbon steel pipe; seamless steel pipe; steel pipe 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1.1 Product analysis shall be made on each length of pipe. 
Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical compo­
sition requirements shall be rejected. 
S2. Transverse Tension Test 
S2. l A transverse tension test shall be made on a specimen 
from one end or both ends of each pipe NPS 8 [DN 200] and 
over. If this supplementary requirement is specified, the num­
ber of tests per pipe shall also be specified. If a specimen from 
any length fails to meet the required tensile properties (tensile, 
yield, and elongation), that length shall be rejected subject to 
retreatrnent in accordance with Specification A530/ A530M and 
satisfactory retest. 
S3. Flattening Test, Standard 
S3 .1 For pipe over NPS 2 [DN 50], a section of pipe not less 
than 2½ in. [63.5 mm] in length shall be flattened cold between 
parallel plates until the opposite walls of the pipe meet. 
Flattening tests shall be in accordance with Specification 
A530/A530M, except that in the formula used to calculate the 
"H" value, the following "e" constants shall be used: 
0.08 for Grade A 
0.07 for Grades B and C 
S3.2 When low D-to-t ratio tubulars are tested, because the 
strain imposed due to geometry is umeasonably high on the 
inside smface at the six and twelve o'clock locations, cracks at 
these locations shall not be cause for rejection if the D-to-t ratio 
is less than ten. 
176 
S3.3 The flattening test shall be made on one length of pipe 
from each lot of 400 lengths or fraction thereof of each size 
over NPS 2 [DN 50], up to but not including NPS 6 [DN 150], 
and from each lot of 200 lengths or fraction thereof, of each 
size NPS 6 [DN 150] and over. 
S3.4 Should a crop end of a finished pipe fail in the 
flattening test, one retest is permitted to be made from the 
failed end. Pipe shall be normalized either before or after the 
first test, but pipe shall be subjected to only two normalizing 
treatments. 
S4. Flattening Test, Enhanced 
S4.l The flattening test of Specification A530/A530M shall 
be made on a specimen from one end or both ends of each pipe. 
Crop ends may be used. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails because of lack of ductility 
prior to satisfactory completion of the first step of the flattening 
test requirement, that pipe shall be rejected subject to retreat­
ment in accordance with Specification A530/A530M and 
satisfactory retest. If a specimen from any length of pipe fails 
because of a lack of soundness, that length shall be rejected, 
unless subsequent retesting indicates that the remaining length 
is sound. 
SS. Metal Structure and Etching Test 
S5 .1 The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate sections of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 