SA-999/SA-999M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
17. Repair by Welding 
17 .1 Repair by welding of defects in seamless pipe (includ­
ing centrifugally cast pipe and forged and bored pipe) and of 
plate defects in welded pipe and, if specifically stated by the 
applicable product specification, weld seam defects in welded 
pipe shall be permitted subject to the approval of the purchaser 
and with the further understanding that the composition of the 
deposited filler metal shall be suitable for the composition 
being welded. Defects shall be thoroughly chipped or ground 
out before welding and each repaired length shall be reheat 
treated or stress relieved as required by the applicable product 
specification. Each length of repaired pipe shall be nondestruc­
tively tested as required by the applicable product specifica­
tion. 
17 .2 Repair welding shall be performed using procedures 
and welders or welding operators that have been qualified in 
accordance with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
Section IX. 
18. Retests 
18.1 If the results of the qualification tests of any lot do not 
conform to the requirements specified in the applicable product 
specification, retests are permitted on additional lengths of pipe 
of double the original number from the same lot, each of which 
shall conform to the requirements specified. Only one retest of 
any lot is permitted. Nonconformance of the retest is cause for 
the rejection of the lot. 
18.2 Any individual length of pipe that meets the test 
requirements is acceptable. It is permitted to retest individual 
lengths that do not confonn to the test requirements, provided 
that the reason for nonconformance is established and the 
nonconforming portion is removed. 
19. Retreatment 
19.1 If individual lengths of pipe selected to represent any 
lot fail to conform to the test requirements, the lot represented 
may be reheat treated and resubmitted for test. The manufac­
turer may reheat treat the pipe, but not more than twice, except 
with the approval of the purchaser. 
20. Test Specimens 
20.1 Test specimens shall be taken from the ends of finished 
pipe prior to any forming operations, or being cut to length. 
20.2 Specimens cut either longitudinally or transversely 
shall be acceptable for the tension test. 
20.3 If any test specimen shows flaws or defective 
machining, the specimen may be discarded and another sub­
stituted. 
21. Flattening Test Requirements 
21.l Seamless and Centrifugally Cast Pipe-A section of 
pipe not less than 2½ in. [60 mm] in length shall be flattened 
cold between parallel plates in two steps. During the first step, 
which is a test for ductility, no cracks or breaks on the inside, 
outside, or end surfaces, except as allowed by 21.3.4, shall 
occur before the distance between the plates is less than the 
value of H calculated as follows: 
H=(l + e)v(e + t/D) 
where: 
H = distance between flattening plates, in. [mm], 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], 
(2) 
D = specified outside diameter, outside diameter correspond­
ing to specified ANSI pipe size, or outside diameter 
calculated by adding 2t (as defined above) to the 
specified inside diameter in. [mm], and 
e = deformation per unit length (constant for a given grade 
of steel, 0.07 for medium carbon steel (maximum 
specified carbon 0.19 % or greater), 0.08 for ferritic 
alloy steel, 0.09 for austenitic steel, 0.09 for duplex 
(ferritic/austenitic) stainless steel, and 0.09 for low­
carbon steel (maximum specified carbon 0.18 % or 
less)). 
During the second step, which is a test for soundness, the 
flattening shall be continued until the specimen breaks or the 
opposite walls of the specimen meet. 
21.2 Welded Pipe-A section of welded pipe not less than 4 
in. [100 mm] in length shall be flattened cold between parallel 
plates in two steps. The weld shall be placed at 90° from the 
direction of the applied force (at the point of maximum 
bending). During the first step, which is a test for ductility, no 
cracks or breaks on the inside or outside surfaces, except as 
provided for in 21.3.4, shall occur before the distance between 
the plates is less than the value of H calculated by Eq 2. During 
the second step, which is a test for soundness, the flattening 
shall be continued until the specimen breaks or the opposite 
walls of the specimen meet. 
21.3 Seamless, Centrifugally Cast, and Welded Pipe: 
21.3.1 Evidence of laminated or defective material or weld 
that is revealed at any time during the entire flattening test shall 
be cause for rejection. 
21.3.2 Surface imperfections not evident in the test speci­
men before flattening, but revealed during the first step of the 
flattening test, shall be judged in accordance with the finish 
requirements. 
21.3.3 Superficial ruptures resulting from surface imperfec­
tions shall not be a cause for rejection. 
21.3.4 When low D-to-t ratio tubular products are tested, 
because the strain imposed due to geometry is unreasonably 
high on the inside surface at the six and twelve o'clock 
locations, cracks at these locations shall not be cause for 
rejection if the D-to-t ratio is less than 10. 
22. Nondestructive Test Requirements 
22.1 If required by the applicable product specification or 
the purchase order, the pipe shall be tested by the hydrostatic 
test (see 22.2) or by the nondestructive electric test (see 22.3). 
22.2 Hydrostatic Test: 
22.2.1 Except as allowed by 22.2.2 and 22.2.3, each length 
of pipe shall be tested by the manufacturer to a hydrostatic 
pressure that will produce in the pipe wall a stress not less than 
60 % of the specified minimum yield strength for ferritic alloy 
steel and stainless steel pipe, or 50 % of the specified minimum 
yield strength for austenitic alloy and stainless steel pipe and 
1490 