ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
(p J Have welding requirements been defined, and weld 
metal and weldment data been submitted? 
(q) Has the influence of fabrication practices on materi­
al properties been defined? 
IV-1900 REQUIREMENTS FOR RECOGNIZED 
NATIONAL OR INTERNATIONAL 
SPECIFICATIONS 
Acceptable material specifications will be identified by 
date or edition. The latest approved edition(s) will be sta­
ted in the subtitle of the ASME specification. Eventually, 
acceptable previous editions will be listed in Section II, 
Parts A and B. Minimum requirements that shall be con­
tained in a material specification for which acceptance 
is being requested include such items as the name of 
the national or international organization, scope, refer­
ence documents, process, manufacture, conditions for de­
livery, heat treatment, chemical and tensile requirements, 
forming properties, testing specifications and require­
ments, workmanship, finish, marking, inspection, and 
rejection. 
IV-2000 PUBLICATION OF RECOGNIZED 
NATIONAL OR INTERNATIONAL 
SPECIFICATIONS 
Specifications for which ASME has been given publish­
ing permission by the originating organization will be 
published in Section II, Parts A and B. Specifications for 
which ASME has not been given publishing permission 
by the originating organization will be referenced on a 
cover sheet in Section II, Parts A and B. Information on ob­
taining a copy of those referenced documents will be 
maintained in those Parts. Additions and exceptions to 
the material specification will be noted in the subtitle of 
the specification and in Table 11-200-1 or 11-200-2 in Sec­
tion II, Parts A and B. 
IV-2100 CEN SPECIFICATIONS 
European Standards are adopted by CEN in three offi­
cial languages (English, French, and German) as an EN 
standard. After the CEN adoption, to become applicable 
in a member country of CEN, an EN standard shall be giv­
en the status of a national standard. During this process 
(a) the text of the EN standard shall remain unaltered 
and shall be included as adopted by CEN 
(b) national forewords and/or annexes may be added 
to cover specific national practices, but shall not be irt 
contradiction with the EN standard 
(c) a prefix XX (e.g., XX= BS for the United Kingdom, NF 
for France, and DIN for Germany) is added to the designa­
tion of the EN standard (e.g., BS EN 10028-1 or NF EN 
10028-1) 
( d) the date of adoption as a national standard will dif­
fer from the date of adoption as an EN standard, and may 
differ from one country to another 
Written or electronic copies can only be obtained from 
European National Standardization Bodies as XX EN (CEN 
does not sell standards). Consequently, in order to main­
tain coherence and homogeneity in the reference system, 
the mentions in the subtitle of the corresponding ASME 
specification will only refer to the EN standard number 
without any prefix and to the year of approval by CEN. 
It will also be mentioned in the cover sheet that the na­
tional parts do not apply for the ASME specification. 
1634 