SA-788/SA-788M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
The capacity of the system must also be sufficiently high to 
reduce the initial surge pressure at the start of the pour to a low 
level within 2 min. 
5.2.1.2 When the vacuum-lift process is utilized, the molten 
metal shall be repeatedly drawn into the evacuated vessel to 
give a recirculation factor (see Annex Al) of at least 2.5 to 
ensure thorough degassing and mixing of the entire heat. The 
evacuation system shall be capable of reducing the pressure 
surges, which occur each time a new portion of steel is 
admitted to the vessel to increasingly lower levels, until a 
blank-off pressure (usually less than 1000 µm) is achieved 
signifying the end of the degassing treatment. 
5.2.1.3 When the ladle degassing process is used, the 
evacuation system shall be capable of reducing the system 
vacuum pressure to a low level (usually less than 1000 µm). 
The molten metal shall be adequately stirred for a sufficient 
length of time to maximize exposure to the evacuated atmo­
sphere. 
5.2.1.4 Other methods of vacuum treatment may be used if 
the supplier can demonstrate adequate degassing and accept­
able properties in the finished forging to the satisfaction of the 
purchaser. 
6. Forging 
6.1 Forgings shall be made in accordance with 3.2.1. 
6.2 Because of differences in manufacture, hot-rolled, or 
hot-rolled and cold-finished bars (semi-finished or finished), 
billets, or blooms are not considered to be forgings. 
6.3 Cold worked forgings shall be made from material 
previously hot worked by forging or rolling; however, a 
hot-cold worked forging may be produced in one continuous 
operation wherein the material is first hot worked and then cold 
worked by control of the finishing temperature. 
7. Cooling Prior to Heat Treatment 
7.1 After forging and before reheating for heat treatment, 
the forgings shall be allowed to cool in such a manner as to 
prevent injury and, in the case of ferritic forgings, to permit 
substantially complete transformation of austenite. 
8. Chemical Composition 
8.1 Heat Analysis: 
8.1.1 An analysis of each heat of steel shall be made by the 
steel producer to determine the percentages of those elements 
specified in the product specification. This analysis shall be 
made from a test sample preferably taken during the pouring of 
the heat and shall conform to the requirements of the product 
specification. 
8.1.2 When multiple heats are tapped into a common ladle, 
the ladle chemistry shall apply. The chemical composition thus 
determined shall conform to the requirements of the product 
specification. 
8.1.3 For multiple-heat ingots, either individual heat analy­
ses or a weighted average (see Annex A2) may be taken. The 
results of the method used shall conform to the requirements of 
the product specification. 
8.1.4 With the exception of the product from multiple heats 
sequentially cast in strand casting machines (see 8.1.5), if the 
test sample taken for a heat analysis is lost or declared 
inadequate for chemical determinations, the steel producer may 
take alternative samples from appropriate locations near the 
surface of the ingot or forging as necessary to establish the 
analysis of the heat in question. 
8.1.5 For multiple heats sequentially cast in strand casting 
machines, the heat analysis shall be determined for each 
individual heat in accordance with 8.1.1 or 8.1.2 if applicable. 
8.1.5.1 If, for multiple heats sequentially strand cast, the test 
sample is lost or declared inadequate for chemical analysis 
determination, alternative samples, remote from the transition 
zones, may be taken by the steel producer from the cast 
material or product of that heat, as defined in 8.2 or 8.3 as 
appropriate. 
8.1.6 Heat Analysis for Remelted Ingots: 
8.1.6.1 When consumable remelting processes are used, a 
chemical analysis shall be taken from a remelted ingot ( or the 
product of a remelted ingot) for the remelt heat analysis. 
8.1.6.2 When more than one electrode is prepared from a 
master or parent heat for remelting in the same facility by the 
same process, then the heat analysis obtained from one 
remelted ingot, or the product from that ingot, shall be taken as 
the heat analysis for all of the remelted ingots from that master 
heat. For analysis from each remelted ingot, see S27. 
8.1.6.3 When electrodes from different master heats are 
remelted sequentially, an analysis shall be made in each zone 
of the remelted ingot corresponding to at least one electrode 
from each master heat. The resultant chemical analysis of each 
zone shall conform to the requirements of the product specifi­
cation. The heat analysis of the remelted ingot shall be 
represented by a weighted average (see Annex A2) of the 
individual chemical analyses for each zone. 
8.1.6.4 Limits on aluminum content in remelt ingots shall be 
set as required in the product specification. 
8.2 Heat Number Assignment for Sequentially Strand Cast 
Material-When heats of the same chemical composition are 
sequentially strand cast, the heat number assigned to the cast 
product may remain unchanged until all of the steel in the 
product is from the following heat, except when Supplemen­
tary Requirement S3 is invoked. 
8.3 Identification of Material of Different Chemical Compo­
sition Ranges, Sequentially Strand Cast-Because of intermix­
ing in the tun dish, separation and identification of the resultant 
transition material is required when steels of different chemical 
composition ranges are sequentially strand cast. The steel 
producer shall remove the transition material by any estab­
lished procedure that positively separates the grades. 
8.4 Product Analysis: 
8.4.1 An analysis may be made by the purchaser from a 
forging representing each heat or multiple heat (see 8.1). 
Samples for analysis may be taken from the forging or from a 
full-size prolongation. The sampling location shall be at any 
point from the midradius to the outer surface of disk or other 
solid forgings or midway between the inner and outer surfaces 
of hollow or bored forgings. The analysis may also be taken 
from a mechanical test specimen or the mechanical test 
location as defined in the product specification. 
1276 