SA-749/SA-749M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
determinations of any element in a cast shall not vary both 
above and below the specified range. 
5.4 Sampling for Product Analysis: 
5.4.1 To indicate adequately the representative com­
position of a cast by product analysis, it is general practice 
to select samples to represent the steel, as fairly as possible, 
from a minimum number of pieces as follows: 3 pieces 
for lots up to 15 tons inclusive, and 6 pieces for lots over 
15 tons [15 Mg]. 
5.4.2 When the steel is subject to tension test require­
ments, samples for product analysis may be taken either 
by drilling entirely through the used tension test specimens 
themselves or in accordance with 5.4.3. 
5.4.3 When the steel is not subject to tension test 
requirements, the samples for analysis must be taken by 
milling or drilling entirely through the stlip in a sufficient 
number of places so that the samples are representative of 
the entire stlip. The sampling may be facilitated by folding 
the stlip both ways, so that several samples may be taken 
at one drilling. Steel subjected to certain heating operations 
by the purchaser may not give chemical analysis results 
that properly represent its original composition. Therefore, 
users must analyze chips taken from the steel in the condi­
tion in which it is received from the steel manufacturer. 
5.5 Specimen Preparation - Drillings or chips must be 
taken without the application of water, oil, or other lubri­
cant, and must be free of scale, grease, dirt, or other foreign 
substances. They must not be overheated during cutting to 
the extent of causing decarburization. Chips must be well 
niixed, and those too coarse to pass a No. 10 (2.00 mm) 
sieve or too fine to remain on a No. 30 (600 µ,m) sieve 
are not suitable for proper analysis. Sieve size numbers 
are in accordance with Specification E 11. 
5.6 Test Methods-In case a referee analysis is required 
and agreed upon to resolve a dispute concerning the results 
of a chemical analysis, the procedure for performing the 
referee analysis must be in accordance with the latest issue 
of Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology A 751, unless 
otherwise agreed upon between the manufacturer and the 
purchaser. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 The mechanical property requirements, number of 
specimens, test locations, and specimen orientation shall 
be in accordance with the applicable product specification. 
6.2 Unless otherwise specified in the applicable product 
specification, test specimens must be prepared in accor­
dance with Test Methods and Definitions A 370. 
6.3 Mechanical tests shall be conducted in accordance 
with Test Methods and Definitions A 370. 
6.4 Bend tests, where required, shall be conducted in 
compliance with Test Methods E 290. 
6.5 To determine conformance with the product speci­
fication, a calculated value should be rounded to the nearest 
1 ksi [7 MPa] tensile strength and yield point or yield 
strength, and to the nearest unit in the right hand place of 
figures used in expressing the limiting value for other val­
ues in accordance with the rounding off method given in 
Practice E 29. 
6.6 Structural steels are commonly fabricated by cold 
bending. There are many interrelated factors that affect the 
ability of a given steel to cold form over a given radius 
under shop conditions. These factors include thickness, 
strength level, degree of restraint, relationship to rolling 
direction, chemistry, and microstructure. Each of the appro­
priate product specifications lists in the appendix the sug­
gested minimum inside radius for cold bending. These radii 
should be used as minima for 90° bends. They presuppose 
"hard way" bending (bend axis parallel to rolling direction) 
and reasonably good shop forming practices. Where possi­
ble, the use of larger radii or "easy way" bends are recom­
mended for improved performance. 
6.7 Fabricators should be aware that cracks may initiate 
upon bending a sheared or burned edge. This is not consid­
ered to be a fault of the steel but is rather a function of 
the induced cold-work or heat-affected zone. 
7. Dimensions, Tolerances, and Allowances 
7 .1 Dimensions, tolerances, and allowances applicable 
to products covered by this specification are contained in 
Table 2 through Table 9 [Annex Al, Tables Al.1 through 
Al.7]. The appropriate tolerance tables shall be identified 
in each individual specification. 
8. Workmanship 
8.1 Cut lengths shall have a workmanlike appearance 
and shall not have imperfections of a nature or degree for 
the product, the grade, and the quality ordered that will be 
detlimental to the fabrication of the finished part. 
8.2 Coils may contain some abnormal imperfections 
that render a portion of the coil unusable since the inspec­
tion of coils does not afford the producer the same opportu­
nity to remove portions containing imperfections as in the 
case with cut lengths. 
9. Finish and Condition 
9.1 Hot-rolled stlip has a surface with an oxide or scale 
resulting from the hot-rolling operation. The oxide or scale 
can be removed by pickling or blast cleaning when required 
1224 