~ 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-962/SA-962M 
such as electroslag remelting or vacuum remelting. If second­
ary melting is employed, the heat shall be defined as all of the 
ingot remelted from a single primary heat. 
5.5 Steel may be cast in ingots or may be continuously cast. 
When steel of different grades is continuously cast identifica­
tion of the resultant transition material is required. The steel 
producer shall remove the transition material by an established 
procedure that positively separates the grades. Should the 
purchaser deem it necessary to have the transition zone of two 
heats of the same grade which are continuously cast discarded, 
the purchaser shall invoke Supplementary Requirement S53. 
5.6 Quality-The steel producer quality control procedures 
shall provide sufficient testing of carbon and alloy steels in 
accordance with Method E381 or other suitable method as 
agreed upon between the purchaser and the producer to assure 
the internal quality of the product. 
5.6. l Ingot Cast Product-Visual examination of transverse 
sections shall show no imperfections worse than the macro­
graphs of Method E381 S2-R2-C3 or equivalent as agreed 
upon. 
5.6.2 Strand Cast Product-Visual examination of traverse 
sections in accordance with Method E381 shall reveal none of 
the conditions shown in macrographs 1-5, 7, 12-18 of Plate III. 
Conditions 6, 8-11 shall not be present to a degree greater than 
the macrographs of Plates I and II, S2-R2-C3. 
6. Materials and Manufacture 
6.1 Bars shall be produced in accordance with Specifica­
tions A29/A29M or A484/A484M as applicable. Finish (hot 
rolled or cold drawn, rough turned, extruded, ground, or 
polished) shall be at the option of the manufacturer unless 
otherwise specified. 
6.1.1 A sufficient discard shall be made from each ingot to 
ensure bars do not contain piping or segregation that precludes 
use of the product to manufacture bolting meeting the require­
ments of the individual product specifications. 
6.2 Bolting components shall be produced in accordance 
with the product specification. 
7. Chemical Composition 
7 .1 Chemical Analysis-Heat or product chemical analysis 
shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. 
7 .2 Heat Analysis-An analysis of each heat of steel shall be 
made by the steel manufacturer to determine the percentages of 
those elements specified in the individual product specification. 
If secondary melting processes are employed, the heat analysis 
shall be obtained from one remelted ingot or the product of one 
remelted ingot of each primary melt. The chemical analysis 
thus determined shall conform to the requirements of the 
individual product specification. Product analysis (check 
analysis) tolerances shall not be applied to heat analysis 
requirements. 
7.3 Product Analysis-When performed, by manufacturer, 
purchaser, end user, and so forth, samples for analysis shall be 
taken from midway between center and surface of solid parts, 
midway between inner and outer surfaces of hollow parts, 
midway between center and surface of full-size prolongations 
or from broken mechanical test specimens. The chemical 
composition thus determined shall conform to the limits of the 
product specification, within the permissible tolerances found 
in Tables 5 and 6 of Specification A29/A29M and Table 1 of 
Specification A484/A484M as appropriate for the grade being 
supplied. When multiple samples are taken from the same lot 
for product analysis, individual elements shall not vary both 
above and below the specified range. 
7.4 For continuous cast materials the requirements of 8.2 or 
8.3, as appropriate, of Specification A 788/ A 788M shall be met. 
7 .5 Steels with intentional additions of lead, bismuth, or 
tellurium shall not be supplied or used. Steels with intentional 
additions of selenium may only be supplied or used when 
specifically called out in the product specification. 
7.6 The starting material shall not contain any unspecified 
elements, other than nitrogen in austenitic stainless steels, for 
the ordered grade( s) to the extent that it then conforms to the 
requirements of another grade for which that element is a 
specified element having a required minimum content. 
8. Mechanical Properties 
8.1 Method of Mechanical Tests-All tests shall be con­
ducted in accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370 
if the inch-pound units are specified or Test Methods A1058 if 
the M suffix (SI units) is specified, unless otherwise specified. 
8.2 For the purpose of determining conformance to the 
product specification requirements, specimens shall be ob­
tained from the production material, or, in the case of forgings, 
from separately forged test blanks prepared from the stock used 
to make the finished product. Heat treatment shall be com­
pleted prior to removal of material for mechanical testing. 
8.3 If separately forged test blanks are used, they shall be of 
the same heat of steel, be subjected to substantially the same 
reduction and working as the production forging they 
represent, be heat treated in the same furnace charge and under 
the same conditions as the production forging, and be of the 
same nominal thickness as the maximum heat treated thickness 
of the production forging. 
8.4 Bars-Tension and impact tests representing bar stock 
shall be taken in accordance with the requirements of Annex 
Al of Test Methods and Definitions A370. Impact tests are not 
required on bars ½ in. and under in diameter. 
8.5 Components, Machined from Heat Treated Bar­
Mechanical properties of bolting components machined from 
heat treated bar shall be represented by the tests conducted on 
the bar in accordance with 8.4. 
8.6 Components, All Classes-Produced by other 
methods-When bolting components have been produced by 
upsetting or forging (hot or cold), when they have been 
subjected to heat treatment, or when the nominal thread size 
falls into a different diameter range than that of the starting bar 
as shown in the applicable specifications, then tests shall be 
conducted on material taken from those components. 
8.6.1 Tension test specimens taken from finished compo­
nents shall be machined to the form and dimensions and from 
1415 