SA·813/SA·813M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
heat treatment condition, and at intervals not exceeding 4 h. 
More frequent standardization may be performed at the manu­
facturer's option or may be required upon agreement between 
the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
13.10.2 The test apparatus shall also be standardized after 
any change in test system settings, change of operator, equip­
ment repair, or interruption due to power loss, process shut­
down or when a problem is suspected. 
13.10.3 The reference standard shall be passed through the 
test apparatus at the same speed and test system settings as the 
pipe to be tested. 
13.10.4 The signal-to-noise ratio for the reference standard 
shall be 2½ to 1 or greater. Extraneous signals caused by 
identifiable causes such as dings, scratches, dents, straightener 
marks, etc., shall not be considered noise. The rejection 
amplitude shall be adjusted to be at least 50 % of full scale of 
the readout display. 
13.10.5 If upon any standardization, the rejection amplitude 
has decreased by 29 % (3 dB) of peak height from the last 
standardization, the pipe since the last calibration shall be 
rejected. The test system settings may be changed, or the 
transducer(s), coil(s) or sensor(s) adjusted, and the unit 
restandardized, but all pipe tested since the last acceptable 
standardization must be retested for acceptance. 
13.11 Evaluation of Imperfections: 
13.11.1 Pipes producing a signal equal to or greater than the 
lowest signal produced by the reference standard(s) shall be 
identified and separated from the acceptable pipes. The area 
producing the signal may be reexamined. 
13.11.2 Such pipes shall be rejected if the test signal was 
produced by imperfections that cannot be identified or was 
produced by cracks or crack-like imperfections. These pipes 
may be repaired per Sections 4 and 10. To be accepted, a 
repaired pipe must pass the same non-destructive test by which 
it was rejected, and it must meet the minimum wall thickness 
requirements of this specification. 
13.11.3 If the test signals were produced by visual imper­
fections such as: 
( 1) Scratches, 
(2) Surface roughness, 
(3) Dings, 
( 4) Straightener marks, 
( 5) Cutting chips, 
( 6) Steel die stamps, 
(7) Stop marks, or 
(8) Pipe reducer ripple. 
The pipe may be accepted based on visual examination 
provided the imperfection is less than 0.004 in. [0.1 mm] or 
12½ % of the specified wall thickness (whichever is greater). 
13.11.4 Rejected pipe may be reconditioned and retested 
providing the wall thickness is not decreased to less than that 
required by this or the product specification. The outside 
diameter at the point of grinding may be reduced by the amount 
so removed. To be accepted, retested pipe shall meet the test 
requirement. 
13.11.5 If the imperfection is explored to the extent that it 
can be identified as non-rejectable, the pipe may be accepted 
without further test providing the imperfection does not en­
croach on the minimum wall thickness. 
14. Product Marking 
14.1 In addition to that specified in Specification A999/ 
A999M, the marking shall include the manufacturer's private 
identifying mark and identified as either single welded (SW) or 
double welded (DW) as applicable. For Grades TP304H, 
TP316H, TP321H, TP347H, and TP348H, the marking shall 
also include the heat ti.umber and heat-treatment lot identifica­
tion. If specified in the purchase order, the marking for pipe 
larger than NPS 4 shall include the weights. 
14.2 DELETED 
14.3 When a hydrostatic test of the pipe is not performed, 
the pipe shall be marked NH. 
15. General Requirements 
15.1 Material furnished under this specification shall con­
form to the applicable requirements of the current edition of 
Specification A999/ A999M unless otherwise provided herein. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1.1 For all pipes NPS 5 and larger in nominal size, there 
shall be one product analysis made of a representative sample 
from one piece for each ten lengths or fraction thereof from 
each heat of steel. 
S1.2 For pipe smaller than NPS 5, there shall be one product 
analysis made from ten lengths per heat of steel or from 10 % 
of the number of lengths per heat of steel, whichever number 
is smaller. 
S 1.3 Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical 
requirements specified in Section 5 shall be rejected. 
S2. Transverse Tension Tests 
S2.1 There shall be one transverse tension test made from 
one end of 10 % of the lengths furnished per heat of steel. This 
applies only to pipe NPS 8 and larger in nominal size. 
S2.2 If a specimen from any length fails to conform to the 
tensile properties specified that length shall be rejected. 
1320 
~ 