SA-20/SA-Z0M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
procedure qualification test plates and the weld repaired plate 
shall be subjected to the thermal heat treatment as specified by 
the purchaser. 
9.4.7 In addition, repair welds shall meet the requirements 
of the construction code specified by the purchaser. 
10. Test Methods 
10.1 All tests shall be conducted in accordance with Test 
Methods and Definitions A370. 
10.2 Yield strength shall be determined by either the 0.2 % 
offset method or the 0.5 % extension under load method, unless 
otherwise stated in the applicable product specification. 
10.3 Rounding Procedures-For purposes of determining 
conformance with the applicable product specification, a cal­
culated value shall be rounded to the nearest 1 ksi [5 MPa] for 
tensile and yield strengths, and to the nearest unit in the 
right-hand place of figures used in expressing the limiting 
value for other values, in accordance with the rounding method 
given in Practice E29. 
11. Tension Tests 
11.1 Number of Test Coupons: 
11.1.1 Plates Produced from As-Rolled Plates-For other 
than quenched and tempered plates, one tension test coupon 
shall be taken from each plate-as-rolled. Two tension test 
coupons shall be taken from each quenched and tempered 
plate, as heat treated. If plates are furnished by the manufac­
turer or processor in accordance with 11.4.2 and qualified by 
using test specimens taken from heat-treated test coupons 
(including normalized, normalized and tempered, and 
quenched and tempered), one tension test coupon shall be 
taken from each plate-as-rolled (see Terminology A941 for the 
definition of plate-as-rolled). 
11.1.2 Plates Produced from Coil and Furnished without 
Heat Treatment or with Stress Relieving Only-Except as 
allowed by 11.1.2.1 and 11.1.4, a minimum of three tension 
coupons shall be taken from each coil as follows: 
11.1.2. l The first test coupon shall be taken immediately 
prior to the first plate to be qualified to the applicable product 
specification, the second test coupon shall be taken from the 
approximate center lap, and the third test coupon shall be taken 
immediately after the last plate to be qualified to the applicable 
product specification. If, during decoiling, the amount of 
material decoiled is less than that required to reach the next 
standard test location, a test for qualification of that particular 
portion of the coil shall be made from a test coupon taken from 
a location adjacent to the innermost portion decoiled. 
11.1.2.2 All plates between any two test locations that meet 
the requirements of the applicable product specification are 
acceptable. 
11. l.2.3 All plates between a test location that fails to meet 
the requirements of the applicable product specification and an 
adjacent test location that meets the requirements of the 
applicable product specification are rejectable, except that the 
processor has the option to malce other tests after cutting back 
the coil in either direction. 
11.1.3 Plates Produced from Coil and Furnished Heat 
Treated by Other than Stress Relieving-For other than 
74 
quenched and tempered plates, one tension test coupon shall be 
taken from each coil. Two tension test coupons shall be taken 
from each quenched and tempered plate, as heat treated. 
11.1.4 Plates Produced from Coil and Qualified Using Test 
Specimens Taken from Test Coupons Heat Treated by Other 
than Stress Relieving-One tension test coupon shall be taken 
from each coil. 
11.2 Orientation of Test Specimens-The longitudinal axis 
of the tension test specimens shall be transverse to the final 
rolling direction of the plate. 
11.3 Location of Test Coupons-Tension test coupons shall 
be taken from a corner of the plate. For quenched and tempered 
plates, the two tension test coupons shall be taken from 
opposite ends of the plate. 
11.4 Tests from Heat-Treated Plates: 
11.4.1 If heat treatment is performed by the manufacturer or 
processor, the test specimens shall be taken from the plate in 
the heat-treated condition or from full-thickness coupons 
simultaneously heat treated with the plate. 
11.4.2 If heat treatment is to be performed by the fabricator, 
the plates shall be accepted on the basis of tests made on test 
specimens taken from full-thickness coupons heat treated in 
accordance with the requirements specified in the applicable 
product specification or the purchase order. If the heat­
treatment temperatures are not specified, the manufacturer or 
processor shall heat treat the coupons under conditions it 
considers appropriate. The purchaser shall be informed of the 
procedure followed in heat treating the specimens. 
11.4.3 If approved by the purchaser, the procedures of 
11.4.2 may be implemented on plates heat treated by the 
manufacturer or processor, except that for plates that are 
quenched and tempered, all testing required the specification or 
the purchase order must be performed after plate heat 
treatment, in accordance with 11.1.1 and 11.4.4, and the results 
reported. 
11.4.4 For plates that are heat treated with a cooling rate 
faster than still-air cooling from the austenitizing temperature, 
one of the following shall apply in addition to other require­
ments specified herein: 
11.4.4.1 The gage length of the tension test specimen shall 
be talcen at least IT from any as-heat treated edge, where Tis 
the thickness of the plate, and shall be at least ½ in. [12.5 mm] 
from flame-cut or heat-affected-zone surfaces. 
11.4.4.2 A steel thermal buffer pad, 1 Tby lTby at least 3T, 
shall be joined to the plate edge by a partial penetration weld 
completely sealing the buffered edge prior to heat treatment. 
11.4.4.3 Thermal insulation or other thermal barriers shall 
be used during the heat treatment adjacent to the plate edge 
where the test specimens are to be removed. It shall be 
demonstrated that the cooling rate of the tension test specimen 
is no faster than, and not substantially slower than, that attained 
by the method described in 11.4.4.2. 
11 .4.4.4 When test coupons cut from the plate but heat 
treated separately are used, the coupon dimensions shall be not 
less than 3T by 3T by T and each tension test specimen cut 
from it shall meet the requirements of 11.4.4.1. 