ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-334/SA-334M 
in the welded joint and perpendicular to the surface. When 
diameter and thickness does not pennit obtaining trans­
verse specimens, longitudinal specimens in accordance 
with 14.2 shall be obtained. The bottom of the notch shall 
be located at the weld joint. 
15. Impact Test 
15.1 Except when the size of the finished tube is insuf­
ficient to pennit obtaining subsize impact specimens, all 
material furnished under this specification and marked in 
accordance with Section 17 shall be tested for impact resist­
ance at the temperature for the respective grades as pre­
scribed in Table 6. 
15.1.1 Special impact tests on individual lots of 
material may be made at other temperatures if agreed upon 
between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
15.2 The notched-bar impact test shall be made in 
accordance with the procedure for the simple beam, 
Charpy-type of test of Test Methods E 23. 
15.3 Impact tests specified for temperatures lower than 
+ 70°F [20°C] should be made with the following precau­
tions. The impact test specimens as well as the handling 
tongs shall be cooled a sufficient time in a suitable container 
so that both reach the desired temperature. The temperature 
shall be measured with thermocouples, thermometers, or 
any other suitable devices and shall be controlled within 
±3°F [2°C]. The specimens shall be quickly transferred 
from the cooling device to the anvil of the Charpy impact 
testing machine and broken with a time lapse of not more 
than 5 s. 
15.4 When subsize Charpy impact specimens are used 
and the width along the notch is less than 80% of the actual 
wall thickness of the original material, the specified Charpy 
impact test temperature for Grades 1, 3, 6, 7, and 9 shall 
be lower than the minimum temperature shown in Table 
6 for the respective grade. Under these circumstances the 
temperature reduction values shall be by an amount equal 
to the difference (as shown in Table 7) between the temper­
ature reduction corresponding to the actual material thick­
ness and the temperature reduction corresponding to 
Charpy specimen width actually tested. The appendix 
shows some examples of how the temperature reductions 
are detennined. 
16. Hydrostatic or Nondestructive Electric Test 
16.1 Each tube shall be subjected to the nondestructive 
electric test or the hydrostatic test in accordance with Speci­
fication A 1016/ A 1016M. The type oftest to be used shall 
be at the option of the manufacturer, unless otherwise 
specified in the purchase order. 
17. Product Marking 
17.1 Except as modified in 16.1.1, in addition to the 
marking prescribed in Specification A 1016/ A 1016M, the 
marking shall include whether hot-finished, cold-drawn, 
seamless, or welded, and the letters "LT" followed by the 
temperature at which the impact tests were made, except 
when a lower test temperature is required because of 
reduced specimen size, in which case, the higher impact 
test temperature applicable to a full-size specimen should 
be marked. 
17.1.1 When the size of the finished tube is insuffi­
cient to obtain subsize impact specimens, the marking shall 
not include the letters LT followed by an indicated test 
temperature unless Supplementary Requirement S 1 is spec­
ified. 
497 