SA-962/SA-962M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Common Requirements for Bolting Intended for Use at Any 
Temperature from Cryogenic to the Creep Range 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers a group of common require­
ments that shall apply to carbon, alloy, stainless steel, and 
nickel alloy bolting under any of the following ASTM Speci­
fications ( or under any other ASTM Specifications that invoke 
this specification or portions thereof): 
Title of Specifications ASTM Designation 
Alloy-Steel and Stainless Steel Bolting for A 193/ A 193M 
High Temperature or High Pressure Service and 
Other Special Purpose Applications 
Carbon Steel, Alloy Steel, and Stainless Steel Nuts A194/A194M 
for Bolts for High Pressure or High Temperature 
Service, or Both 
Alloy-Steel and Stainless Steel Bolting for Low'. A320/A320M 
Temperature Service 
Stainless and Alloy-Steel Turbine-Type Bolting A437/A437M 
Specially Heat Treated for High-Temperature 
Service 
High-Temperature Bolting, with Expansion A453/A453M 
Coefficients Comparable to Austenitlc Stainless 
Steels 
Alloy-Steel Bolling for Special Applications A540/A540M 
Precipitation-Hardening Bolting (UNS N07718) A1014/A1014M 
for High Temperature Service 
High Strength Precipitation Hardening and Duplex A1082/A1082M 
Stainless Steel Bolting for Special Purpose 
Applications 
1.2 In case of conflict, the requirements of the individual 
product specification shall prevail over those of this specifica­
tion. 
1.3 Fasteners are a wide-ranging classification that includes 
screws, bolts, nuts, washers, stud bolts, rivets, powder-actuated 
studs, staples, tacks, and pins. Bolting, which is composed of 
bolting materials, such as rods, bars, flats, and forgings, which 
are subsequently manufactured into bolting components, are a 
special sub-group of fasteners. Bolting materials and compo­
nents have designated compositions and specific properties 
intended for applications in aggressive service where commer­
cial generic fasteners may not be suitable or have insufficient 
fitness for purpose under certain conditions. These conditions 
include cryogenic or high temperature service, or excessive 
vibration, impact, or shock. To further address any other 
special service conditions where bolting is intended for use, 
additional requirements may be specified by mutual agreement 
between the purchaser and supplier. 
1.4 Supplementary requirements are provided for use at the 
option of the purchaser. The supplementary requirements only 
apply when specified individually by the purchaser in the 
purchase order or contract. 
1.5 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units. Unless the purchase order or contract specifies 
the applicable "M" specification designation (SI units) the 
inch-pound units shall apply. The values stated in either SI 
units or inch-pound units are to be regarded separately as 
standard. Within the text, the SI units are shown in brackets. 
The values stated in each system may not be exact equivalents; 
therefore, each system shall be used independently of the other. 
Combining values from the two systems may result in noncon­
formance with the specification. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
The following documents shall form a part of this specifica­
tion to the extent specified. The latest issue shall apply un­
less otherwise specified. 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A29/A29M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Bars, Carbon and Alloy, Hot-Wrought 
A193/A193M Specification for Alloy-Steel and Stainless 
Steel Bolting for High Temperature or High Pressure 
Service and Other Special Purpose Applications 
1412 