ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-960 /SA-960M 
examination in accordance with Guide E709 or liquid penetrant 
inspection in accordance with Test Method E165/El65M, as 
applicable. 
16.2.4 Repair welding shall not exceed 10 % of the external 
surface area of the part, or 33 1/3 % of the wall thickness of the 
finished product, or 3/s in. [10 mm] deep maximum at the 
location of the repair, without prior approval of the purchaser. 
16.2.5 Weld repaired material or parts, or both, shall be 
marked "RW" when required by the product specification. 
16.3 The weld repair shall conform to the additional 
requirements, if any, invoked in the product specification. 
17. Inspection 
17 .1 The supplier shall provide the purchaser's inspector 
with all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy him that the 
material is being produced and furnished in accordance with 
this specification and the applicable product specification. Site 
inspection by the purchaser shall not interfere unnecessarily 
with the supplier's operations. 
18. Rejection and Rehearing 
18.1 Samples representing material rejected by the pur­
chaser shall be preserved until disposition of the claim has been 
agreed to between the supplier and the purchaser. 
19. Marking 
19.l Each piece shall be legibly marked in a position as not 
to injure the usefulness of the fitting with the product specifi­
cation number, grade or marking symbol, class, certifying 
organization's name or symbol, the heat number or heat 
identification, size, and schedule number or wall thickness, if 
applicable. Dual or multiple marking with the product speci­
fication number, grade or marking symbol, and class is 
acceptable provided the material meets all the requirements 
with which it is marked. It is not required to mark the product 
with the specification year and date of issue. When size or 
shape does not permit the inclusion of all the required marking 
as described, see 19.2. Manufacturer can also choose the use of 
tags, box labels, etc. for identification when per piece marking 
is not practical due to size or shape. 
19.2 The Standard Marking System of Valves, Fittings, 
Flanges and Unions MSS-SP-25 shall be followed except the 
word "steel" shall not be substituted for the specification grade. 
19.3 Product marking shall conform to the additional 
requirements, if any, invoked in the product specification or 
purchase order. 
20. Certification 
20.1 A test report and certificate of compliance are required. 
20.2 Test reports shall include the product specification 
number and year/date of issue, the results of all tests required 
by this specification, and the purchaser order, and shall be 
traceable to the part represented. 
20.3 A single document containing the test report informa­
tion and certificate of compliance information may be used. 
20.4 A certificate printed from or used in electronic data 
interchange (EDI) transmission shall be regarded as having the 
same validity as a counterpart printed in the certifier's facility. 
The content of the EDI transmitted document shall conform to 
any existing EDI agreement between the purchaser and the 
supplier. 
20.5 Not withstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting either a printed certificate or an EDI 
transmitted certificate is responsible for the content of the 
report. 
21. Packaging, Marking and Loading for Shipment 
21.1 Packaging, marking, and loading for shipment shall be 
in accordance with Practices A 700. 
22. Keywords 
22.1 austenitic stainless steel; corrosive service applica­
tions; ferritic/austenitic stainless steel; ferritic stainless steel; 
high strength low alloy steel; martensitic stainless steel; piping 
applications; pressure containing parts; pressure vessel service; 
stainless steel fittings; temperature service applications­
elevated; temperature service applications-low; temperature 
service applications-moderate 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
These requirements shall not be considered unless specified in the order, in which event, the 
supplementary requirements specified shall be made at the place of manufacture, unless otherwise 
agreed upon, at the purchaser's expense. The test specified shall be witnessed by the purchaser's 
inspector before shipment of material, if so specified in the order. The rationale for beginning the 
section numbering with SS0 is to eliminate the possibility of confusion with supplementary 
requirements existing in individual product specifications. 
SSO. Product Analysis (See Note SSO.l) 
SS0.1 A product analysis shall be made from each heat of 
base metal and, if of welded construction, from each lot 
number of welding material of the fittings offered for delivery. 
The analysis shall conform to the requirements specified in 
Section 8. 
S51. Tension Test (See Note SS0.1) 
SS 1.1 One tension test shall be made on one fitting or 
representative test piece (See Note SS0.2) per lot (See Note 
SS0.3) of fittings. If the fittings are of welded construction, the 
tension specimen shall include the weld and shall be prepared 
so that the weld is at the midlength location of the specimen. 
1395 