SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
dimensions (thickness, width, and length) do not take into 
account current production and processing capabilities. To 
qualify any product to a particular product specification re­
quires all appropriate and necessary tests be performed and that 
the results meet the limits prescribed in that product specifi­
cation. If the necessary tests required by a product specification 
cannot be conducted, the product cannot be qualified to that 
specification. This general requirement standard contains per­
mitted variations for the commonly available sizes. Permitted 
variations for other sizes are subject to agreement between the 
customer and the manufacturer or processor, whichever is 
applicable. 
3.1.1.4 Slabs, sheet bars, and skelp, though frequently 
falling in the foregoing size ranges, are not classed as plates. 
3.1.1.5 Coils are excluded from qualification to the appli­
cable product specification until they are decoiled, leveled or 
straightened, formed (if applicable), cut to length, and, if 
required, properly tested by the processor in accordance with 
ASTM specification requirements (see Sections 9-15, 18, and 
19 and the applicable product specification). 
3.1.2 Shapes (Flanged Sections): 
3.1.2.1 structural-size shapes-rolled :flanged sections hav­
ing at least one dimension of the cross section 3 in. [75 mm] or 
greater. 
3.1.2.2 bar-size shapes-rolled flanged sections having a 
maximum dimension of the cross section less than 3 in. [75 
mm]. 
3.1.2.3 "W" shapes-doubly-symmetric, wide-flange 
shapes with inside flange surfaces that are substantially paral­
lel. 
3.1.2.4 "HP" shapes-are wide-flange shapes generally 
used as bearing piles whose flanges and webs are of the same 
nominal thickness and whose depth and width are essentially 
the same. 
3.1.2.5 "S" shapes-<loubly-symmetric beam shapes with 
inside flange surfaces that have a slope of approximately 
162/3%. 
3.1.2.6 "M" shapes-doubly-symmetric shapes that cannot 
be classified as "W," "S," or "HP" shapes. 
3.1.2.7 "C" shapes-channels with inside flange surfaces 
that have a slope of approximately 16 2/3 %. 
3.1.2.8 "MC" shapes-channels that cannot be classified as 
"C" shapes. 
3.1.2.9 "L" shapes-shapes having equal-leg and unequal­
leg angles. 
3.1.3 sheet piling~rolled steel sections that are capable of 
being interlocked, forming a continuous wall when individual 
pieces are driven side by side. 
3.1.4 bars-rounds, squares, and hexagons, of all sizes; flats 
13 /64 in. (0.203 in.) and over [over 5 mm] in specified thickness, 
not over 6 in. [150 mm] in specified width; and flats 0.230 in. 
and over [over 6 mm] in specified thickness, over 6 to 8 in. 
[150 to 200 mm] inclusive, in specified width. 
3.1.5 exclusive-when used in relation to ranges, as for 
ranges of thickness in the tables of permissible variations in 
dimensions, is intended to exclude only the greater value of the 
6 
range. Thus, a range from 60 to 72 in. [1500 to 1800 mm] 
exclusive includes 60 in. [1500 mm], but does not include 72 
in. [1800 mm]. 
3.1.6 rimmed steel-steel containing sufficient oxygen to 
give a continuous evolution of carbon monoxide during 
solidification, resulting in a case or rim of metal virtually free 
of voids. 
3.1.7 semi-killed steel-incompletely deoxidized steel con­
taining sufficient oxygen to form enough carbon monoxide 
during solidification to offset solidification shrinkage. 
3.1.8 capped steel-rimmed steel in which the rimming 
action is limited by an early capping operation. Capping is 
carried out mechanically by using a heavy metal cap on a 
bottle-top mold or chemically by an addition of aluminum or 
ferrosilicon to the top of the molten steel in an open-top mold. 
3.1.9 killed steel-steel deoxidized, either by addition of 
strong deoxidizing agents or by vacuum treatment, to reduce 
the oxygen content to such a level that no reaction occurs 
between carbon and oxygen during solidification. 
3.1.10 mill edge-the normal edge produced by rolling 
between horizontal finishing rolls. A mill edge does not 
conform to any definite contour. Mill edge plates have two mill 
edges and two trimmed edges. 
3.1.11 universal mill edge-the normal edge produced by 
rolling between horizontal and vertical finishing rolls. Univer­
sal mill plates, sometimes designated UM Plates, have two 
universal mill edges and two trimmed edges. 
3.1.12 sheared edge-the normal edge produced by shear­
ing. Sheared edge plates are trimmed on all edges. 
3.1.13 gas cut edge-the edge produced by gas flame 
cutting. 
3.1.14 special cut edge-usually the edge produced by gas 
flame cutting involving special practices such as pre-heating or 
post-heating, or both, in order to minimize stresses, avoid 
thermal cracking and reduce the hardness of the gas cut edge. 
In special instances, special cut edge is used to designate an 
edge produced by machining. 
3.1.15 sketch-when used to describe a form of plate, 
denotes a plate other than rectangular, circular, or semi­
circular. 
3.1.16 normalizing-a heat treating process in which a steel 
plate is reheated to a uniform temperature above the upper 
critical temperature and then cooled in air to below the 
transformation range. 
3. 1. 17 plate-as-rolled-when used in relation to the location 
and number of tests, the term refers to the unit plate rolled from 
a slab or directly from an ingot. It does not refer to the 
condition of the plate. 
3 .1.18 fine grain practice-a steelmaking practice that is 
intended to produce a killed steel that is capable of meeting the 
requirements for fine austenitic grain size. 
3.1.18.1 Discussion-It normally involves the addition of 
one or more austenitic grain refining elements in amounts that 
have been established by the steel producer as being sufficient. 