ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-999 /SA-999M 
ANNEXES 
(Mandatory Information) 
Al. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF NEW MATERIALS 
Al.l New materials may be proposed for inclusion in 
product specifications referencing this general requirements 
specification subject to the following conditions: 
Al. 1. 1 Application for the addition of a new grade to a 
specification shall be made to the chair of the subcommittee 
that has jurisdiction over that specification. 
Al.1.2 The application shall be accompanied by a statement 
from at least one user indicating that there is a need for the new 
grade to be included in the applicable product specification. 
Al.1.3 The application shall be accompanied by test data as 
required by the applicable product specification. Test data from 
a minimum of three test lots, as defined by the applicable 
product specification, each from a different heat, shall be 
furnished. 
Al.1.4 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable product specifica­
tion. 
Al.1.5 The application shall state whether the new grade is 
covered by patent. 
A2. REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF MATERIALS FROM OTHER A0l OR B02.07 SPECIFICATIONS 
A2.1 Wrought materials that are already covered by another 
A0l or B02.07 specification may be proposed for inclusion in 
specifications referencing this specification of general require­
ments subject to the following conditions: 
A2.1. l Application for the addition of a grade that is already 
covered in another A0l or B02.07 specification shall be made 
to the chair of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over that 
specification. 
A2.1.2 The chemical requirements, the specified mechani­
cal properties, and the heat treatment requirements of the grade 
being added shall be the same as those for the grade in the AOl 
or B02.07 specification in which the grade is presently covered. 
A2.l.3 The application shall provide recommendations for 
all requirements appearing in the applicable specification. 
A2.1.4 The application shall state whether or not the grade 
is covered by patent. 
1495 