SA-299/SA-299M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, Carbon Steel, Manganese-Silicon 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers manganese-silicon carbon 
steel plates for use in welded boilers and other pressure vessels. 
1.2 Plates under this specification are produced in two 
grades. The specified minimum yield strength decreases for 
thicknesses over 1 in. [25 mm]. 
1.3 The maximum thickness of plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the composition to meet the specified mechanical 
property requirements. 
1.4 For plates produced from coil and furnished without 
heat treatment or with stress relieving only, the additional 
requirements, including additional testing requirements and the 
reporting of additional test results, of Specification A20/ A20M 
apply. 
1.5 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
1.6 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for Ultrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Plates supplied to this product specification shall con­
form to Specification A20/ A20M, which outlines the testing 
and retesting methods and procedures, permitted variations in 
dimensions and mass, quality and repair of defects, marking, 
loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
where additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/ A20M. 
432 
3.3 Coils are excluded from qualification to this specifica­
tion until they are processed into finished plates. Plates 
produced from coil means plates that have been cut to 
individual lengths from coil. The processor directly controls, or 
is responsible for, the operations involved in the processing of 
coils into finished plates. Such operations include decoiling, 
leveling, cutting to length, testing, inspection, conditioning, 
heat treatment (if applicable), packaging, marking, loading for 
shipment, and certification. 
NoTE 1-For plates produced from coil and furnished without heat 
treatment or with stress relieving only, three test results are repo1ted for 
each qualifying coil. Additional requirements regarding plates from coil 
are described in Specification A20/A20M. 
3.4 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 Steelmaking Practice-The steel shall be killed and 
shall conform to the fine austenitic grain size requirement of 
Specification A20/ A20M. 