ASME BPVC.Il.A-Z0Z5 SA-358/SA-358M 
deposit chei:nistry; testing equipment and method; number and 
location oftest sites; and ferrite control limits) shall be a matter 
for agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
SS. Stabilizing Heat Treatment 
S5.l Subsequent to the heat treatment required in 6.3, 
Grades 321, 321H, 347, 347H, and 348 shall be given a 
stabilization heat treatment at a temperature lower than that 
used for the initial solution annealing heat treatment. The 
temperature of stabilization heat treatment shall be at a 
temperature as agreed upon between the purchaser and manu­
facturer. 
S6. Intergranular Corrosion Test 
S6.1 When specified, material shall pass intergranular cor­
rosion tests conducted by the manufacturer in accordance with 
Practices A262, Practice E. 
Nom SI-Practice E requires testing on the sensitized condition for 
low carbon or stabilized grades, and on the as-shipped condition for other 
grades. 
S6.2 A stabilization heat treatment in accordance with 
Supplementary Requirement S5 may be necessary and is 
permitted in order to meet this requirement for the grades 
containing titanium or columbium. 
S7. In-Process Heat Treatments 
S7.l For H grades, separate solution treatments are required 
for solution annealing. In-process heat treatments are not 
peri:nitted as a substitute for separate solution annealing. 
SS. ASME Section III or Section VIII, Division 1, Con­
struction 
S8.1 Products furnished under this specification that are 
intended for application under the rules of Section III or 
Section VIII, Division 1, of the ASME Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code shall be manufactured by holders of the appropri­
ate ASME Certificate of Authorization and Certification Mark. 
The product is subject to all applicable requirements of Section 
III or Section VIII, Division 1, including welding, heat 
treatment, nondestructive examination, authorized inspection 
at the point of manufacture, and application of the Certification 
Mark. 
S8.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report form, 
signed by an Authorized Inspector or Authorized Nuclear 
Inspector and a material test report shall be furnished for each 
lot of pipe. 
S8.3 The welded joints shall be full penetration butt welds 
as obtained by double welding or by other means that will 
obtain the same quality of deposited weld metal on the inside 
and outside. Welds using metal backing strips that remain in 
place are prohibited. 
S8.4 In addition to the requirements of 15.1, for pipe that is 
not heat treated, or that is heat treated in a continuous furnace, 
a lot shall consist of each 200 ft [60 m] or fraction thereof, of 
all pipe of the same heat of plate starting material of the same 
thickness, subjected to the same heat treatment. For pipe that is 
heat treated in a batch-type furnace that is automatically 
controlled within a 50 °F [25 °C] range and is equipped with 
recording pyrometers so that the heating records are available, 
a lot shall be defined as for continuous furnace heat treatment. 
Each length of pipe shall be so marked as to identify each such 
piece of pipe with the lot and the material test report. 
573 