SA-781/SA-781M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
the elements specified in the individual specification for 
the grade being poured. The analysis shall be made from 
a test sample preferably taken during the pouring of the 
heat. When drillings are used, they shall be taken not less 
than ¼ in. [6.4 mm] beneath the surface. The chemical 
composition thus determined shall conform to the require­
ments in the individual specification for the grade being 
poured. 
5.3 Product Analysis - A product analysis may be 
made by the purchaser from material representing each 
heat, lot, or casting. The analysis shall be made on represen­
tative material. Samples for carbon analysis of carbon and 
alloy steel shall be taken no closer than ¼ in. [6 mm] to 
a cast surface, except that castings too thin for this shall 
be analyzed on representative material. The chemical com­
position thus determined shall meetthe requirements speci­
fied in the applicable specification for the grade involved, 
or shall be subject to rejection by the purchaser, except 
that the chemical composition determined for carbon and 
low alloy steel castings may vary from the specified limits 
by the amounts shown in Table 1. The product analysis 
tolerances of Table 1 are not applicable as acceptance 
criteria for heat analysis by the casting manufacturer. When 
comparing product and heat analysis for other than carbon 
and low alloy steels, the reproducibility Data R 2 , in Test 
Methods E 353 or E 354, as applicable, shall be taken into 
consideration. 
5.4 Unspecified Elements - When chemical analysis 
for elements not specified for the grade ordered is desired, 
Supplementary Requirement S13 may be specified. 
5.4.1 Grade substitution, for stainless steel or nickel 
base alloy castings, is not permitted. Grade substitution 
occurs when the material supplied: 
( 1) contains an element, other than nitrogen, that is not 
specified in the ordered grade; and, 
(2) the amount of that element equals or exceeds the 
minimum requirement for the element in another grade for 
which it is specified. 
For this requirement, a grade is defined as an alloy 
described individually in a table of chemical requirements 
within any specification listed within the scope of 
A 781/A 781M. 
6. Mechanical Test Requirements 
6.1 The individual product specifications vary as to 
whether mechanical tests are required; for this reason, and 
to determine specific test requirements, the individual prod­
uct specification should be reviewed. 
6.2 Unless otherwise specified by the purchaser, when 
mechanical properties are required by the product specifi­
cation, test coupons may be cast integrally with the cast­
ings, or as separate blocks, in accordance with Fig. 1, 
Fig. 2, or Fig. 3, except when Supplementary Requirement 
S 15 is specified. The test coupon in Fig. 3 shall be 
employed only for austenitic alloy castings with cross sec­
tions less than 2½, in. [65 mm]. 
7. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
7.1 All castings shall be made in a workmanlike manner 
and shall conform to the dimensions on drawings furnished 
by the purchaser before manufacture is started. If the pat­
tern is supplied by the purchaser, the dimensions of the 
casting shall be as predicated by the pattern. 
8. Quality 
8.1 The surface of the casting shall be free of adhering 
sand, scale, cracks, and hot tears as determined by visual 
examination. Other surface discontinuities shall meet the 
visual acceptance standards specified in the order. Practice 
A 802/ A 802M or other visual standards may be used to 
define acceptable surface discontinuities and finish. Unac­
ceptable visual surface discontinuities shall be removed 
and their removal verified by visual examination of the 
resultant cavities. 
8.2 When additional inspection is desired, Supplemen­
tary Requirements Sl, S2, S3, S4, or S5 may be specified. 
8.3 Rejectable indications shall not be peened, plugged, 
or impregnated. 
9. Repair 
9.1 Repair by welding shall be in accordance with the 
requirements of the individual specification using proce­
dures and welders qualified in accordance with Practice 
A 488 / A 488M. 
10. • Inspection 
10.1 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's 
inspector all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy that 
the material is being produced and furnished in accordance 
with the applicable specification. Foundry inspection by 
the purchaser shall not interfere unnecessarily with the 
manufacturer's operations. All tests and inspections, with 
the exception of product analysis (5.3), shall be made at 
the place of manufacture unless otherwise agreed. 
11. Rejection 
11.1 Subsequent to acceptance at the manufacturer's 
works, material that is found to be unacceptable as deter­
mined by requirements specified in the order may be 
rejected by the purchaser. The manufacturer should be 
notified of such rejection. If the manufacturer is dissatisfied 
with the results of any tests performed by the purchaser, 
he may make claim for a rehearing. 
12. Keywords 
12.1 castings; common requirements; steel and alloy 
1254 