ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-352/SA-352M 
11. Keywords 
11.1 alloy steel; carbon steel; ferritic steel; low temperature 
applications; mrutensitic stainless steel; pressure containing 
parts; stainless steel; steel castings 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirements shall not apply unless specified in the purchase order. A 
list of standardized supplementary requirements for use at the option of the purchaser is included in 
Specification A 703/ A 703M. Those which are ordinarily considered suitable for use with this 
specification are given below together with additional supplementary requirements that are applicable 
only to this specification. Other supplementary requirements enumerated in A703/A703M may be 
used with this specification upon agreement between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
Sl. Unspecified Elements 
S2. Destruction Tests 
S4. Magnetic Particle Inspection 
S5. Radiographic Inspection 
S9. Drop Weight Tests 
S10. Examination of Weld Preparation 
Sl0.1 The method of performing the magnetic particle or 
liquid penetrant test shall be in accordance with Practice E709 
or Practice E 165. 
S21. Heat Treatment 
S21.1 Castings shall be liquid quenched and tempered. 
S22. Impact Test Temperatures 
S22.1 When an impact test temperature other than that listed 
in Table 1 is used, the lowest test temperature at which the 
material met the impact test requirements shall be stamped 
with low-stress stamps on a raised pad located immediately 
ahead of the material symbol; for example, 25 LCB for +25°F 
[-4°C] and 025 LCB for -25°F [-32°C]. 
S22.2 Lateral expansion of V-notch specimens shall be 
measured in accordance with 23.2.3.1 of Test Methods and 
Definitions A370, and reported for information. 
S23. Carbon Equivalent 
S23.1 When specified on the order the maximum carbon 
equivalent shall be: 
Grade Carbon Equivalent, max 
LCA 0.50 
LCB 0.50 
LCC 0.55 
S23.2 Determine carbon equivalent, CE, as follows: 
Mn Cr+Mo+V Ni+Cu 
CE= C+6+ 5 +-15-
APPENDIX 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. EXPLANATION OF THE USE OF NOTCHED BAR IMPACT TESTS IN DETERMINING THE ACCEPTABILITY OF 
STEELS FOR LOW-TEMPERATURE SERVICE 
Xl. 1 Years of experience and test work have shown that 
some materials, particularly ferritic steels, change from tough 
to brittle behavior with a decrease in temperature. The transi­
tion temperatures and the levels of notch toughness vary with 
different materials, depending on many factors. When materi­
als are used under conditions where brittle behavior may occur, 
there is danger that flaws, which would be considered nonhaz­
ardous if the material were tough, may propagate to disastrous 
failure of the equipment. 
Xl.2 Accordingly, many varieties of tests have been devel­
oped in an effort to evaluate the toughness of materials and the 
conditions under which they will transform from tough to 
brittle behavior. There are many opinions and shadings of 
551 
opinion as to which test is most suitable for evaluating the 
suitability of materials for service at low temperatures; how­
ever, as yet, only the Charpy impact test has received sufficient 
general acceptance and has been used as a basis for purchasing 
for sufficient time to be included in ASTM standards. Further­
more, this test is required for low-temperature service vessels 
and piping constructed in accordance with ASME Code for 
Unfired Pressure Vessels and the American National Standard 
Code for Pressure Piping (ANSI B31), respectively. These 
ASTM specifications for materials for low-temperature service 
are primarily used in piping and pressure vessel construction 
that are subjected to temperatures lower than ambient; conse­
quently, the notched bar impact test requirements are written to 
provide material that in quality and by its testing can be 