SA-803 /SA-803M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
TABLE 6 Squareness of Ends Tolerance 
Tube OD, in. [mm] 
Up to 5/e [15.9], incl 
Over 5/s to 1 in. [15.9 to 25.4], incl 
Tolerance, in. [mm] 
0.010 [0.25] 
0.016 [0.41] 
intended purpose. Surface defects that violate minimum wall 
requirements shall be cause for rejection. 
NoIB 1-Ferritic stainless steels may be expanded by other methods but 
the user should exercise precautions when using methods other than roll 
expansion as these grades have a higher ductile-brittle transition 
temperature, are more strain rate sensitive, and have lower ductility than 
austenitic grades. 
13.2 The residual chloride salt contamination of the inside 
and outside surface of the tubing at the time of packing for 
shipment from the mill shall not exceed a concentration of l 
mg/ft 2 [10.7 mg/m 2 ] of tube surface. One tube in each 500 
pieces shall be checked immediately prior to packing for 
shipment for chloride salt contamination by a procedure agreed 
to between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
14. Surface Condition 
14.1 The straight tubes, after final annealing, shall be 
pickled using a solution of nitric and hydrofluoric acids 
followed by flushing and rinsing in water. If bright-annealing is 
performed, this requirement does not apply. 
14.1.1 All tubes shall be free of excessive mill scale, 
suitable for inspection. A slight amount of oxidation will not be 
considered as scale. Any special finish requirements shall be 
subject to agreement between the manufacturer and the pur足
chaser. 
14.2 A light oxide scale on the outside surface of U-bend 
area shall be pennitted for tubes that have been electric足
resistan.ce heat treated after bending. 
15. Nondestructive Test (Electric Test) 
15.1 Each straight tube shall be tested after the finish heat 
treatment by passing it through a nondestructive tester capable 
of detecting defects on the entire cross section of the tube in 
accordance with Specification A1016/A1016M. 
16. Inspection 
16.l The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry, at all times, to those areas where inspection and testing 
is being performed on the purchaser's ordered material. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities 
to satisfy the inspector that the material is being furnished in 
accordance with this specification. All required tests and 
inspections shall be made at the place of manufacture prior to 
shipment, unless otherwise specified, and shall be conducted so 
as not to interfere unnecessarily with the operation of the 
works. 
17. Rejection 
17 .1 Each length of tubing received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser, and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of the specification based on the inspection and 
test method outlined in the specification, the tubing may be 
rejected and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected tubing shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
17 .2 Material that fails in any of the fanning operations or 
in the process of installation and is found to be defective, shall 
be set aside, and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition 
of such material shall be a matter for agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
18. Certification 
18.1 A test report, signed by an authorized employee or 
representative of the manufacturer, shall be furnished to the 
purchaser to indicate the specification and grade, seamless or 
welded, the results of the heat analysis, hardness, and tensile 
properties. Product analysis will be repmted only when re足
quested on the purchase order as provided in 9 .1.1. 
19. Product Marking 
19 .1 All tubes shall be marked with the heat number. 
19.2 Containers and packages shall be marked or tagged to 
show the purchaser's order number, the manufacturer's order 
number, specification, seamless or welded, grade, size and wall 
thickness, minimum or average, number of pieces contained in 
the package, and item number (if appropriate). 
20. Packaging 
20.1 All tubing shall be packaged and blocked in such a 
manner as to prevent damage in ordinary handling and trans足
portation. The boxes shall be constructed in such a manner that 
no nails, staples, screws, or similar fasteners are required to 
close and secure the box after the tubes have been placed in the 
box. The box shall be lined with plastic sheet or vapor barrier 
materials so as to prevent chloride contamination of the tube 
during handling, transportation, and storage. 
20.2 The U-bent tubes shall be arranged in boxes so that the 
smaller radius bends may be removed without disturbing larger 
radius bends. Tubes for an item number shall be boxed 
together. 
21. Keywords 
21.1 feedwater heater tubes; ferritic stainless steel; seamless 
steel tube; stainless steel tube; steel tube; welded steel tube 
1310 