ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-961/SA-961M 
for Steel Products for Shipment 
A707/A707M Specification for Forged Carbon and Alloy 
Steel Flanges for Low-Temperature Service 
A 727 / A 727M Specification for Carbon Steel Forgings for 
Piping Components with Inherent Notch Toughness 
A751 Test Methods and Practices for Chemical Analysis of 
Steel Products 
A836/ A836M Specification for Titanium-Stabilized Carbon 
Steel Forgings for Glass-Lined Piping and Pressure Vessel 
Service 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
A967/A967M Specification for Chemical Passivation Treat­
ments for Stainless Steel Parts 
A991/A991M Test Method for Conducting Temperature 
Uniformity Surveys of Furnaces Used to Heat Treat Steel 
Products 
A1058 Test Methods for Mechanical Testing of Steel 
Products-Metric 
B880 Specification for General Requirements for Chemical 
Check Analysis Limits for Nickel, Nickel Alloys and 
Cobalt Alloys 
E165/E165M Practice for Liquid Penetrant Testing for Gen­
eral Industry 
E381 Method of Macroetch Testing Steel Bars, Billets, 
Blooms, and Forgings 
E709 Guide for Magnetic Particle Testing 
E1916 Guide for Identification of Mixed Lots of Metals 
2.2 ASME Standard: 
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code-Section IX 
2.3 Manufacturer's Standardization Society Standard: 
SP 25 Standard Marking System of Valves, Fittings, Flanges 
and Unions 
3. Terminology 
3.1 Definitions-For definitions of other terms used in this 
specification, refer to Terminology A941. 
3.2 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.2.1 bar; n-a solid rolled or forged section that is long in 
relationship to its cross sectional dimensions, with a relatively 
constant cross section throughout its length and a wrought 
microstructure. 
3.2.2 certifying organization, n-the company or associa­
tion responsible for the conformance of, the marking of, and 
the certification of the product to the specification require­
ments. 
3.2.3 fitting, n-a component for non-bolted joints in piping 
systems. 
3.2.4 flange, n-a component for bolted joints used in 
piping systems. 
3.2.5 forging, n-the product of a substantially compressive 
hot or cold plastic working operation that consolidates the 
material and produces the required shape. 
3.2.5.1 Discussion-The plastic working must be performed 
by a forging machine, such as a hammer, press, or ring rolling 
machine, and must deform the material to produce a wrought 
structure throughout the material cross section. 
3.2.6 seamless tubing, n-a tubular product made without a 
welded seam. 
3.2.6.1 Discussion-It is manufactured usually by hot work­
ing the material, and if necessary, by subsequently cold 
finishing the hot worked tubular product to produce the desired 
shape, dimensions and properties. 
4. Ordering Information 
4.1 It is the purchaser's responsibility to specify in the 
purchase order all ordering information necessary to purchase 
the needed material. Examples of such information include, but 
are not limited to, the following: 
4.1.1 Quantity, 
4.1.2 Size and pressure class or dimensions, (tolerances and 
surface finishes should be included), 
4.1.3 Specification number with grade or class, or both, as 
applicable, and year/date, 
4.1.4 Choice of testing track from the options listed in Test 
Methods A1058 when material is ordered to an M suffix (SI 
units) product standard. If the choice of test track is not 
specified in the order, then the default ASTM track shall be 
used as noted in Test Methods Al058, 
4.1.5 Supplementary requirements, and 
4.1.6 Additional requirements. 
S. Melting Process 
5.1 Unless otherwise specified in the individual Product 
Specification, the steel shall be fully killed. 
5.2 If a specific type of melting is required by the purchaser, 
it shall be stated on the purchase order. 
5.3 The primary melting may incorporate separate degas­
sing or refining and may be followed by secondary melting, 
such as electroslag remelting or vacuum remelting. If second­
ary melting is employed, the heat shall be defined as all of the 
ingot remelted from a single primary heat. 
5.4 Steel may be cast in ingots or may be strand cast. When 
steel of different grades is sequentially strand cast, identifica­
tion of the resultant transition material is required. The steel 
producer shall remove the transition material by an established 
procedure that positively separates the grades. 
5.5 A sufficient discard shall be made from the source 
material to secure freedom from injurious porosity and 
shrinkage, and undue segregation. 
6. Manufacture 
6.1 The finished part shall be manufactured from a forging 
that is as close as practicable to the finished size or shape. 
Alternative starting materials may be used, but with the 
following exceptions and requirements. 
1403 