SA-395/SA-395M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
7.4.3 Castings Grade 60-40-18, ordered under this 
specification not covered by ANSI standards and ASME 
Pressure Vessel Code, and castings for special service 
applications, shall be tested to such pressures as may be 
agreed upon by the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
7.4.4 For castings Grade 60-40-18, it is realized that 
the foundry may be unable to perform the hydrostatic test 
prior to shipment, or that the purchaser may wish to defer 
testing until additional work or machining has been per­
formed on the casting. Castings ordered in the rough state 
for final machining by the purchaser may be tested hydro­
statically prior to shipment by the manufacturer at pressures 
to be agreed upon with the purchaser. However, the foundry 
is responsible for the satisfactory pe1formance of the cast­
ings under the final hydrostatic test. 
8. Workmanship and Finish 
8.1 The surface of the casting shall be examined visu­
ally and shall be free from adhering sand, scale, cracks, 
and hot tears. Any other surface discontinuities shall meet 
visual acceptance standards specified in the order. 
9. Repair 
9.1 Castings for valves, flanges, pipe fittings, pumps, 
and other piping components ordered under applicable 
ANSI standards shall not be repaired by plugging, welding, 
brazing, or impregnation. 
9.2 Castings Grade 60-40-18 not covered in 9.1 which 
leak on hydrostatic tests may be repaired by plugging, 
provided the following requirements are met: 
9.2.1 No welding or brazing is permitted. 
9.2.2 The diameter of the plug shall not exceed the 
diameter of a standard 2 in. [ISO R2] pipe plug. 
9.2.3 The plugs, where practical, shall conform in 
all dimensions to the standard ISO ¾ plugs. In addition, 
they shall have full thread engagement corresponding to 
the thickness in the repaired section. Where a tapered plug 
is impractical because of the excess wall thickness in terms 
of plug diameter and coincident thread engagement, other 
types of plugs may be used provided both full engagement 
and effective sealing against pressure are obtained. Where 
possible, the ends of the plug should be ground smooth after 
installation to conform to the inside and outside contours of 
the wall of the pressure vessel or pressure part. 
9.2.4 The material from which the plug is manufac­
tured shall conform in all respects to the materials specifi­
cations that apply to the pressure vessel or pressure part. 
9.2.5 The area adjacent to the drilled hole shall be 
examined by radiography, and shall meet the Level 3 
acceptance requirements of Reference Radiographs E 689 
and supporting Reference Radiographs E 446, E 186, or 
E 280 as applicable and defined in accordance with Refer­
ence Radiographs E 689. 
9.2.6 The thickness of any repaired section in relation 
to the size of the plug used shall not be less than that given 
in Table 2. 
9.2.7 The minimum radius of repaired sections of 
cylinders or cones in relation to the size of plug used shall 
not be less than that given in Table 3. 
9.2.8 A repaired area may consist of a maximum of 
three plugs with a spacing such that the ligaments between 
adjacent plugs shall not be less than listed in Table 4. Other 
defective areas may also be repaired by plugging provided 
the minimum ligament between plugs in adjacent areas is 
not less than twice the distance from the nearest plug, the 
values for which are listed in Table 4. 
9 .3 Surface imperfections in castings Grade 60-40-18 
other than valves, flanges, pipe fittings, pumps, and other 
piping components may be repaired by plugging provided 
the depth of the plug is not greater than 20% of the thickness 
of the casting section and the diameter of the plug is not 
greater than its length. Repair of surface defects may not 
be done on pressure-containing portions of castings. The 
plug need not be threaded. The conditions of 9.2.1 and 
9.2.4 shall also be satisfied. 
10. Sampling 
10.1 A lot shall consist of one of the following: 
656 
10.1.1 All the metal from a single heating in a batch­
type melting furnace. 
10.1.2 All the metal poured from two or more batch­
type melting furnaces into a single ladle or a single casting. 
10.1.3 All the metal poured from a continuous melt­
ing furnace for a given period of time between changes in 
charge, processing conditions, or aim-for chemistry, or 8 h, 
whichever is the shorter period. 
11. Test Coupon 
11.1 The separately cast test coupons poured from the 
same lot as the castings they represent from which the 
tension test specimen is machined shall be cast to the size 
and shape shown in Fig. 2, Fig. 3, or Fig. 4. Cast coupons 
shall be identified with the castings they represent. Sec­
tioning procedure for removing test specimens from 
Y-blocks is shown in Fig. 5. 
11.1.1 Test samples may be removed from castings 
at locations designated on a drawing or as agreed to by 
manufacturer and purchaser. 