SA-788/SA-788M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
8.5 Residual and Unspecified Elements-Provisions for the 
limitation of certain residual and unspecified elements have 
been made in Supplementary Requirements Sl and S2, respec­
tively. 
8.6 Grade substitution is not permitted. 
8.7 Method of Analysis-Methods included in Test 
Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751 shall be used for 
referee purposes. 
9. Heat Treatment 
9.1 Heat treatment shall be performed as specified in the 
product specification. Supplementary Requirement S4 con­
cerns a specialized heat treat process (see 3.5.3) whose 
application will be controlled in the product specification. 
Unless otherwise specified during a heat treating hold cycle, 
the recorded furnace temperature shall be within ±25°F 
[± 15°C) of the controlling set point temperature. Material 
shall be heat treated in the working zone of a furnace that has 
been surveyed in accordance with Test Method A991/A991M 
provided that the working zone was established using a 
variation of ±25°F [± 15°C] or less from the furnace set point. 
10. Mechanical Testing 
10.1 Test Methods-Except as specified in 4.1.5 or 10.2.1 
and 10.2.2, all tests shall be conducted in accordance with Test 
Methods and Definitions A37O. When forgings are ordered to 
SI requirements (M suffix standard) Test Methods A1058 shall 
be used (see 4.1.5). 
10.1.1 In addition to the hardness testing provisions of Test 
Methods and Definitions A37O or, when required, Test Meth­
ods Al058, comparison hardness testing in accordance with 
Practice A833 may be used in determining the hardness of 
forgings. 
10.2 Fracture Appearance Transition Temperature 
( FAIT ,J-For a product specification (including M suffix SI 
specifications) that requires the determination of the fracture 
appearance transition temperature (FATT 0 ) where n is the 
required minimum percentage of shear fracture as measured on 
the fracture surface of a Charpy V-notch sample by one of the 
methods described in Test Methods and Definitions A37O, the 
Charpy test specimen location and orientation shall be as 
specified in the product standard. 
10.2.1 When the actual fracture appearance transition tem­
perature is required, break at least four specimens that have 
been taken from a comparable location. Test each specimen at 
a different temperature such that the percentage of shear 
fracture will be both above and below the value of n, but within 
a range of ±0.60 times that of the specified value of n. It is 
desirable that two of the specimens will have values of 
cleavage fracture above the value of n, and two will have 
values below this level. Plot the percentage shear fracture 
against test temperature and determine the transition tempera­
ture by interpolation (extrapolation is not permitted). 
10.2.2 When rather than calling for an actual FATTn as 
described in 10.2.1, the product specification requires a mini­
mum PATT n at a given temperature then, unless otherwise 
specified, a single test run at the required temperature satisfies 
the requirement provided that the fracture appearance value is 
at least n. For example, a single test run at 10O°F [38°C] with 
a fracture appearance of 55 % shear fracture satisfies a require­
ment of FATT 50 at 10O°F [38°C]. 
10.3 Retests-If the results of the tests do not conform to the 
requirements specified, retests are permitted as outlined in Test 
Methods and Definitions A37O or as follows: 
10.3.1 If the percentage of elongation or reduction of area of 
any tension test specimen is less than specified because a flaw 
becomes evident in the test specimen during testing, a retest 
shall be allowed provided that the defect was not attributable to 
ruptures, cracks, or flakes in the steel. 
10.3.2 If the average impact energy value meets the speci­
fication requirements, but the energy value for one specimen is 
below the specified minimum value for individual specimens 
prescribed in the material specification, a retest is permitted. 
This shall consist of two impact specimens from a location 
adjacent to and on either side of the specimen that failed. Each 
of the retested specimens must exhibit an energy value equal to 
or greater than the minimum average value required by the 
product specification. 
11. Reheat Treatment 
11.1 If the results of the initial mechanical tests do not 
conform to the specified requirements, the forgings may be 
heat treated (if initially tested in the as-forged condition) or 
reheat treated (if heat treated prior to initial testing). 
12. Repair Welding 
12.1 Repair welding of forgings is not permitted unless 
specifically allowed by the product specification (see also 
4.2.4). 
13. Dimensions and Finish 
13.1 The forgings shall conform to the dimensions, 
tolerances, and finishes required by the ordering information 
(4.1.2). Supplementary Requirements S5 or S6, concerning 
straightening of forgings, may be used. 
13.2 When surface finish, roughness, or texture is specified 
in a steel forging product standard, unless otherwise required 
by the purchaser, the roughness average (Ra), as defined in 
ANSI/ASME B46.1, shall be used (see 4.1.2). 
14. Inspection 
14.1 The manufacturer is responsible for the performance of 
all inspection and test requirements specified. The absence of 
any inspection requirements in the specification shall not 
relieve the contractor of the responsibility for ensuring that all 
products comply with all requirements of the contract. The 
manufacturer may use his own or any other suitable facilities 
for the performance of the inspection and test requirements 
unless disapproved by the purchaser at the time the order is 
placed. 
14.2 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector 
all reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy him that the 
material is being produced and furnished in accordance with 
the material specification. 
1278 