SA-737 /SA-737M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Pressure Vessel Plates, High-Strength, Low-Alloy Steel 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers high-strength low-alloy steel 
plates for service in welded pressure vessels and piping 
components. 
1.2 This material is particularly intended for piping and 
pressure vessel applications where high strength and improved 
toughness are required. 
1.3 Two grades, designated B and C, are covered by this 
specification. Grade B provides a minimum yield strength of 
50 ksi [345 MPa]. Grade C provides a minimum yield strength 
of 60 ksi [415 MPa]. 
1.4 The maximum thickness of plates is limited only by the 
capacity of the chemical composition and heat treatment to 
meet the specified mechanical property requirements; however, 
current practice normally limits the maximum thickness to 4 in. 
[100 mm] for each grade. 
1.5 Grade C in the as-rolled condition is sensitive to 
cracking during flame cutting, transit, and handling, particu­
larly in thicknesses over 2 in. [50 mm]. Plates should not be 
shipped in the as-rolled condition only except by mutual 
agreement between the manufacturer and the purchaser. 
1.6 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. 
1.7 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A435/A435M Specification for Straight-Beam illtrasonic 
Examination of Steel Plates 
A577/A577M Specification for illtrasonic Angle-Beam Ex­
amination of Steel Plates 
A578/A578M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
3. General Requirements and Ordering Information 
3.1 Material supplied to this specification shall conform to 
the requirements of Specification A20/ A20M. These require­
ments outline the testing and retesting methods and procedures, 
permitted variations in dimensions and mass, quality, repair of 
defects, marking, loading, and ordering information. 
3.2 In addition to the basic requirements of this 
specification, certain supplementary requirements are available 
when additional control, testing, or examination is required to 
meet end use requirements. The purchaser is referred to the 
listed supplementary requirements in this specification and to 
the detailed requirements in Specification A20/A20M. 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A20/A20M, the require­
ments of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Manufacture 
4.1 Steelmaking Practice-The steel shall be killed and 
shall conform to the fine austenitic grain size requirement of 
Specification A20/ A20M. 
5. Heat Treatment 
5 .1 The material shall be normalized by heating to a suitable 
temperature which produces an austenitic structure, but not 
exceeding 1700°F [925°C], holding a sufficient time to attain 
uniform heat throughout the material, and cooling in air. 
1198 