SA·836/SA-836M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Titanium-Stabilized Carbon Steel Forgings for Glass-Lined 
Piping and Pressure Vessel Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers nonstandard as-forged fittings, 
valve components, and parts for glass-lined piping and pres­
sure vessel service. Mechanical properties are certified on the 
basis of test material subjected to heat treatments to simulate 
glass-coating operations. 
1.2 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system are not exact equivalents; therefore, each system must 
be used independently of the other. Combining values from the 
two systems may result in nonconformance with the specifi­
cation. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. 
1.3 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A788/A788M Specification for Steel Forgings, General Re­
quirements 
A961/A961M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Steel Flanges, Forged Fittings, Valves, and Parts for 
Piping Applications 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 Product furnished to this specification shall conform to 
the requirements of Specification A961/A961M, including any 
supplementary requirements that are indicated in the purchase 
order. Failure to comply with the requirements of Specification 
A961/A961M constitutes non-conformance with this specifi­
cation. 
3.2 It is the purchaser's responsibility to specify in the 
purchase order all ordering information necessary to purchase 
the needed material. Examples of such information include but 
are not limited to the ordering information in Specification 
A961/A961M and the following: 
3.2.1 Supplementary requirements, and 
3.2.2 Additional requirements (see 11.1, 13.1, and 13.2). 
3.3 If the requirements of this specification are in conflict 
with the requirements of Specification A961/A961M, the 
requirements of this specification shall prevail. 
4. Materials and,Manufacture 
4.1 The material shall be forged by hammering, pressing, 
rolling, extruding, or upsetting, such that the finished product 
will be a forging as defined in the Terminology Section of 
Specification A 788/ A 788M. 
4.2 When specified in the order, the manufacturer shall 
submit for approval by the purchaser a sketch showing the 
shape of the rough forging before machining. 
4.3 Forgings shall be protected against sudden or too rapid 
cooling from the rolling or forging while passing through the 
critical range. 
4.4 Heat treatment of forgings is neither required nor 
prohibited. However, the test material for qualifying the 
forging or the welding procedure shall be heat treated to 
simulate glass-coating operations. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5.1 An analysis of each heat shall be made by the manufac­
turer to determine the percentages of the elements specified in 
Table 1. The chemical composition thus determined shall 
conform to the requirements in Table 1. 
6. Mechanical Properties 
6.1 The test material shall conform to the requirements as to 
tensile properties prescribed in Table 2. 
1352 