ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-6/SA-6M 
12.3.3 Shapes Having One Dimension of the Cross Section 
3 in. [75 mm] or Greater (Structural-Size Shapes)-The 
cross-sectional area or weight [mass] of each shape shall be 
within ±2.5 % of the theoretical or specified amounts except 
for shapes with a nominal weight of less than 100 lb/ft [149 
kg/m], in which the variation shall be within -2.5 % to +3.0 % 
of the theoretical cross-sectional area or the specified nominal 
weight [mass]. 
12.4 Sheet Piling-The weight [mass] of each steel sheet 
pile shall be within ±2.5 % of the theoretical or specified 
weight [mass]. The length of each steel sheet pile shall be not 
less than the specified length, and not more than 5 in. [125 mm] 
over the specified length. 
12.5 Hot-Rolled Bars-The permitted variations in dimen­
sions shall not exceed the applicable limits in Tables 26 to 31 
[Annex Al, Tables Al.26 to Al.31] inclusive. 
12.6 Conversion of Permitted Variations from Fractions of 
an Inch to Decimals-Permitted variations in dimensions for 
products covered by this specification are generally given as 
fractions of an inch and these remain the official permitted 
variations, where so stated. If the material is to be measured by 
equipment reporting dimensions as decimals, conversion of 
permitted variations froni fractions of an inch to decimals shall 
be made to three decimal places; using the rounding method 
prescribed in Practice E29. 
13. Retests 
13.1 If any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws, the manufacturer or processor shall have the 
option of discarding it and substituting another test specimen. 
13.2 If the percentage of elongation of any tension test 
specimen is less than that specified and any part of the fracture 
is more than ¾ in. [20 mm] from the center of the gage length 
of a 2-in. [50-mm] specimen or is outside the middle half of the 
gage length of an 8-in. [200-mm] specimen, as indicated by 
scribe scratches marked on the specimen before testing, a retest 
shall be allowed. 
13.3 Except as provided in 13.3.1, if the results from an 
original tension specimen fails to meet the specified 
requirements, but are within 2 ksi [14 MPa] of the required 
tensile strength, within 1 ksi [7 MPa] of the required yield 
strength or yield point, or within 2 percentage points of the 
required elongation, a retest shall be permitted to replace the 
failing test. A retest shall be performed for the failing original 
test, with the specimen being randomly selected from the heat. 
If the results of the retest meet the specified requirements, the 
heat or lot shall be approved. 
13.3.1 For structural products that are tested as given in 
Table C, both tests from each coil tested to qualify a heat are 
required to meet all mechanical property requirements. Should 
either test fail to do so, then that coil shall not be used to 
qualify the heat; however, the portion of that individual coil 
that is bracketed by acceptable tests (see 11.4.2.3) is considered 
to be qualified. 
13.4 Quenched and tempered steel plates shall be subject to 
any additional retest requirements contained in the applicable 
product specification. 
15 
13.5 When the full-section option of 11.3.3 is used and the 
elongation falls below the specified requirement, the manufac­
turer or processor shall have the option of making another test 
using a test specimen permitted in 11.5.2. 
14. Test Reports 
14.1 Test reports for each heat supplied are required and 
they shall report the following: 
14.1.1 The applicable product specification designation, 
including year-date and whichever of grade, class, and type are 
specified in the purchase order, to which the structural product 
is furnished. 
14.1.2 The heat number, heat analysis (see 7.1), and nomi­
nal sizes. 
Norn 8-If the amount of copper, chromium, nickel, molybdenum, or 
silicon is less than 0.02 %, the heat analysis for that element may be 
reported as <0.02 %. If the amount of columbium (niobium) or vanadium 
is less than 0.008 %, the heat analysis for that element may be reported as 
<0.008 %. 
14.1.3 For structural products that are tested as given in 
Table B, two tension test results appropriate to qualify the 
shipment (see 11.4), except that only one tension test result 
need be reported if the shipment consists of a single piece or 
plate-as-rolled. 
14.1.3.1 In reporting elongation values, both the percentage 
increase and the original gage length shall be stated. 
14.1.3.2 Yield to tensile ratio when such a requirement is 
contained in the product specification. 
14.1.4 For structural products that are required to be heat 
treated, either by the applicable product specification or by the 
purchase order, all heat treatments, including temperature 
ranges and times at temperature, unless the purchaser and the 
supplier have agreed to the supply of a heat treatment proce­
dure in place of the actual temperatures and times. 
14.1.4.1 Subcritical heat treatment to soften thermally cut 
edges need not be reported, except for structural products 
having a specified minimum tensile strength of 95 ksi [655 
MPa] or higher, unless such subcritical heating is accomplished 
at temperatures at least 75°F [40°C] lower than the minimum 
tempering temperature. 
14.1.5 The results of any required austenitic grain size tests 
(see 8.2 or 8.3, whichever is applicable). 
14.1.6 The results of any other test required by the appli­
cable product specification, the applicable supplementary 
requirements, and the purchase order. 
14.2 The thickness of the structural product tested is not 
necessarily the same as an individual ordered thickness, given 
that it is the heat that is tested, rather than each ordered item. 
Tests from specified thicknesses in accordance with 11.4 and 
encompassing the thicknesses in a shipment shall be sufficient 
for qualifying the structural product in the shipment. Such test 
thicknesses are not required to be within previously tested and 
shipped thicknesses from the same heat. 
14.3 For structural products produced from coil that are 
supplied in the as-rolled condition or have been heat treated by 
stress relieving only, the test report shall state "Produced from 