ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-6/SA-6M 
markings on only the top piece of each lift, or of showing such 
markings on a substantial tag attached to each lift, unless 
otherwise specified. 
18.2 Shapes: 
18.2.1 Except as allowed by 18.2.2 and 18.6, shapes shall be 
marked with the heat number, size of section, length, and mill 
identification marks on each piece. Shapes with the greatest 
cross-sectional dimension greater than 6 in. [150 mm] shall 
have the manufacturer's name, brand, or trademark shown in 
raised letters at intervals along the length. In addition, shapes 
shall be identified with the ASTM designation (year-date not 
required) and grade, either by marking each piece individually, 
by permanently affixing a colorfast, weather-resistant label or 
tag, or, if bundled, by attaching a substantial tag to the bundle. 
18.2.2 Bundling for shipment of small shapes with the 
greatest cross-sectional dimension not greater than 6 in. [150 
mm] is permissible. Each lift or bundle shall be marked or 
substantially tagged showing the identification information 
listed in 18.2.1. 
18.2.3 It shall be permissible for the manufacturer to make 
a full size bundle at the end of a heat by adding product from 
a consecutively rolled heat of the same nominal chemical 
composition. The manufacturer shall identify a bundle consist­
ing of product from two heats with the number of the first heat 
rolled or identify both heats. The manufacturer shall maintain 
records of the heats contained in each bundle. 
18.3 Steel Sheet Piling-Steel sheet piling shall be marked 
with the heat number, size of section, length, and mill identi­
fication marks on each piece, either by marking, or by 
permanently affixing colorfast, weather-resistant label or tag. 
The manufacturer's name, brand, or trademark shall be shown 
in raised letters at intervals along the length. 
18.4 Bars-Bars of all sizes, when loaded for shipment, 
shall be properly identified with the name or brand of 
manufacturer, purchaser's name and order number, the ASTM 
designation number (year-date not required), grade number 
where appropriate, size and length, weight [mass] of lift, and 
the heat number for identification. Unless otherwise specified, 
the method of marking is at the manufacturer's option and shall 
be made by hot stamping, cold stamping, painting, or marking 
tags attached to the lifts of bars. Bars are not required to be 
die-stamped. 
18.4.1 It shall be permissible for the manufacturer to make 
a full size bundle at the end of a heat by adding product from 
a consecutively rolled heat of the same nominal chemical 
composition. The manufacturer shall identify a bundle consist­
ing of product from two heats with the number of the first heat 
rolled or identify both heats. The manufacturer shall maintain 
records of the heats contained in each bundle. 
17 
18.5 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements of 18.1 -
18.4 inclusive, the manufacturer or processor shall have the 
option of using bar coding as a supplementary identification 
method. 
NoTE 10-Bar coding should be consistent with AIAG Standards. 
18.6 Subdivided Material: 
18.6.1 Except as allowed by 18.6.2, pieces separated from 
a master structural product by an organization other than the 
original manufacturer shall be identified with the ASTM 
designation (year-date not required), grade, heat number, and 
the heat treatment identification, if applicable, along with the 
trademark, brand, or name of the organization subdividing the 
structural product. The identification methods shall be in 
accordance with the requirements of 18.1 - 18.4 inclusive, 
except that the raised letters method for shapes and steel sheet 
piling is not required. If the original manufacturer's identifi­
cation remains intact, the structural product need not be 
additionally identified by the organization supplying the struc­
tural product. 
18.6.2 It shall be permissible for pieces from the same heat 
of structural product to be bundled or placed in secured lifts, 
with the identification specified in 18.6.1 placed on the top 
piece of each lift or shown on a substantial tag attached to each 
bundle or lift. 
19. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
19.1 Packaging, marking, and loading for shipment shall be 
in accordance with Practices A 700. 
19.2 When Level A is specified, and when specified in the 
contract or order, and for direct procurement by or direct 
shipment to the U.S. government, preservation, packaging, and 
packing shall be in accordance with the Level A requirements 
of MIL-STD-163. 
19.3 When specified in the contract or order, and for direct 
procurement by or direct shipment to the U.S. government, 
marking for shipment, in addition to requirements specified in 
the contract or order, shall be in accordance with MIL-STD-
129 for military agencies and with Fed. Std. No. 123 for civil 
agencies. 
20. Keywords 
20.1 bars; general requirements; plates; rolled; shapes; sheet 
piling; structural steel 