SA-999 /SA-999M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
4.1.1 The definitions in Terminology A941, except as modi­
fied in this specification or in its referenced product 
specifications, are applicable to this specification. 
5. Ordering Information 
5.1 It is the responsibility of the purchaser to specify all 
requirements that are necessary for products ordered under the 
applicable product specification and this general requirements 
specification. Such requirements to be considered include, but 
are not limited to, the following: 
5.1.1 ASTM product specification and year-date, 
5.1.2 Name of product (for example, stainless steel pipe), 
5.1.3 Quantity (feet, metres, or number of pieces), 
5.1.4 Method of manufacture, where applicable (seamless 
or welded), 
5.1.5 Specific type of melting, if required (see 3.4), 
5.1.6 Grade or UNS number, 
5.1.7 Size (NPS and outside diameter and schedule number, 
average (nominal) wall thickness (see 9.1 and 10.1), or 
minimum wall thickness (see 9.2 and 10.1.l), or minimum 
inside diameter (see 11.1)), 
5.1.8 Length (specific or random), 
5.1.9 End finish, 
5.1.10 Optional requirements, 
5.1.11 Specification designation and year of issue, and 
5.1.12 Special requirements or any supplementary 
requirements, or both. 
6. Chemical Composition 
6.1 Chemical Analysis-Samples for chemical analysis and 
method of analysis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, 
Practices, and Terminology A 7 51. 
6.2 Heat Analysis-An analysis of each heat of steel shall be 
made by the steel manufacturer to determine the percentages of 
the specified elements. If secondary melting processes are 
employed, the heat analysis shall be obtained from one 
remelted ingot or the product of one remelted ingot of each 
primary melt. The chemical composition thus determined, or 
that determined from a product analysis made by the tubular 
product manufacturer shall conform to the requirements speci­
fied. 
6.2.1 For steels ordered under product specifications refer­
encing this specification of general requirements, the steel shall 
not contain an unspecified element, other than nitrogen for 
stainless steels, for the ordered grade to the extent that the steel 
conforms to the requirements of another grade for which that 
element is a specified element having a required minimum 
content. For this requirement, a grade is defined as an alloy 
described individually and identified by its own UNS designa­
tion in a table of chemical requirements within any specifica­
tion listed within the scope as being covered by this specifi­
cation. 
6.3 Product Analysis-Product analysis requirements and 
options, if any, shall be as contained in the applicable product 
specification. 
7. Mechanical Properties 
7.1 Method of Mechanical Tests-The specimens and me­
chanical tests required shall be in accordance with Test 
Methods and Definitions A370, especially Annex A2 thereof, 
or Test Methods A1058. 
7 .1.1 Unless otherwise specified in the ordering 
requirements, Test Methods Al 058 shall apply when the metric 
version of the product specification is specified. 
- 7 .2 Specimens shall be tested at room temperature. 
7.3 Small or subsize specimens as described in Test Meth­
ods and Definitions A370 or Test Methods Al058 may be used 
only when there is insufficient material to prepare one of the 
standard specimens. When using small or subsize specimens, 
the largest one possible shall be used. 
8. Tensile Requirements 
8.1 The material shall conform to the requirements as to 
tensile properties in the applicable product specification. 
8.2 The yield strength, if specified, shall be determined 
corresponding to a permanent offset of 0.2 % of the gauge 
length or to a total extension of 0.5 % of the gauge length under 
load. 
8.3 If the percentage of elongation of any test specimen is 
less than that specified and any part of the fracture is more than 
¾ in. [19.0 mm] from the center of the gauge length, as 
indicated by scribe marks on the specimen before testing, a 
retest shall be allowed. 
9. Permissible Variation in Mass for Seamless Pipe 
9.1 Except as allowed by 9.2, the mass of any length of 
seamless pipe in sizes NPS 12 and smaller shall not vary more 
than 10 % over or more than 3.5 % under that specified. For 
pipe in sizes larger than NPS 12, the mass of any length of pipe 
shall not vary more than 10 % over or more than 5 % under that 
specified. Unless otherwise specified, the mass of lengths of 
pipe in sizes NPS 4 and smaller shall be determined separately 
or in convenient lots; the mass of lengths of pipe in sizes larger 
than NPS 4 shall be determined separately. 
9.2 Minimum Wall-If the wall thickness of the pipe is 
specified as minimum wall in the purchase order, the mass of 
any length of seamless pipe shall not vary more than 16 % over 
that calculated in accordance with 14.3. Unless otherwise 
specified, the mass of pipe in sizes NPS 4 and smaller shall be 
determined separately or in convenient lots; the mass of pipe in 
sizes larger than NPS 4 shall be determined separately. 
9.3 The specified mass of pipe shall be detennined by 
multiplying its specified or calculated mass per unit length (see 
14.3) by its measured length. 
10. Permissible Variations in Wall Thickness 
10.1 Seamless and Welded-Except as required by 10.l.l, 
the minimum wall thickness at any point shall not be more than 
12.5 % under the nominal wall thickness specified. The mini­
mum wall thickness on inspection is shown in Table Xl.1. 
1488 