SA-193/SA-193M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Alloy-Steel and Stainless Steel Bolting for High Temperature 
or High Pressure Service and Other Special Purpose 
Applications 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers alloy and stainless steel bolt­
ing materials and bolting components for pressure vessels, 
valves, flanges, and fittings for high temperature or high 
pressure service, or other special purpose applications. See 
Specification A962/A962M for the definition of bolting. Bars 
and wire shall be hot-wrought and may be further processed by 
centerless grinding or by cold drawing. Austenitic stainless 
steel may be carbide solution treated or carbide solution treated 
and strain-hardened. When strain hardened austenitic stainless 
steel is ordered, the purchaser should take special care to 
ensure that Appendix XI is thoroughly understood. 
1.2 Several grades are covered, including ferritic steels and 
austenitic stainless steels designated B5, BS, and so forth. 
Selection will depend upon design, service conditions, me­
chanical properties, and high temperature characteristics. 
1.3 The following referenced general requirements are in­
dispensable for application of this specification: Specification 
A962/A962M. 
Norn 1-The committee formulating this specification has included 
several steel types that have been rather extensively used for the present 
purpose. Other compositions will be considered for inclusion by the 
committee from time to time as the need becomes apparent. 
Norn 2-For grades of alloy-steel bolting suitable for use at the lower 
range of high temperature applications, reference should be made to 
Specification A354. 
Norn 3-For grades of alloy-steel bolting suitable for use in low 
temperature applications, reference should be made to Specification 
A320/A320M. 
1.4 Nuts for use with bolting are covered in Section 13. 
1.5 Supplementary Requirements are provided for use at the 
option of the purchaser. The supplementary requirements shall 
apply only when specified in the purchase order or contract. 
1.6 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units; however, unless the purchase order or contract 
specifies the applicable M specification designation (SI units), 
the inch-pound units shall apply. 
1.7 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
234 
Al53/Al53M Specification for Zinc Coating (Hot-Dip) on 
Iron and Steel Hardware 
A194/A194M Specification for Carbon Steel, Alloy Steel, 
and Stainless Steel Nuts for Bolts for High Pressure or 
High Temperature Service, or Both 
A320/A320M Specification for Alloy-Steel and Stainless 
Steel Bolting for Low-Temperature Service 
A354 Specification for Quenched and Tempered Alloy Steel 
Bolts, Studs, and Other Externally Threaded Fasteners 
A788/A788M Specification for Steel Forgings, General Re­
quirements 