SA-1011/SA-lOUM (ASTM A1011/A1011M) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
cft Designation: A1011/A1011M-23 
~ull 7 
INTERNATIONAL 
Standard Specification for 
Steel, Sheet and Strip, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High­
Strength Low-Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 1 
This standard is issued under the fixed designation AlOll/Al0llM; the number immediately following the designation indicates the 
year of original adoption or, in the case of revision, the year of last revision. A number in parentheses indicates the year of last 
reapproval. A superscript epsilon (s) indicates an editorial change since the last revision or reapproval. 
This standard has been approved for use by agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense. 
1. Scope* 
1.1 This specification covers hot-rolled, carbon, structural, 
high-strength low-alloy, high-strength low-alloy with im­
proved formability, and ultra-high strength steel sheet and strip, 
in coils and cut lengths. 
1.2 Hot rolled steel sheet and strip is available in the 
designations as listed in 4.1. 
1.3 This specification is not applicable to the steel covered 
by Specification A635/A635M. 
1.4 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. The values stated in 
each system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each 
system shall be used independently of the other. Combining 
values from the two systems may result in non-conformance 
with the standard. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards.-2 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A568/A568M Specification for Steel, Sheet, Carbon, 
Structural, and High-Strength, Low-Alloy, Hot-Rolled and 
Cold-Rolled, General Requirements for 
1 This specification is under the jurisdiction of ASTM Committee A0l on Steel, 
Stainless Steel and Related Alloys and is the direct responsibility of Subcommittee 
A0l.19 on Steel Sheet and Strip. 
Current edition approved May I, 2023. Published June 2023. Originally 
approved in 2000. Last previous edition approved in 2018 as AI0ll/AlOllM - 18a. 
DOI: 10.1520/AlOll_A!0llM-23. 
2 For referenced ASTM standards, visit the ASTM website, www.astm.org, or 
contact ASTM Customer Service at service@astm.org. For Annual Book of ASTM 
Standards volume information, refer to the standard's Document Summary page on 
the ASTM website. 
A635/A635M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Heavy-Thickness Coils, Hot-Rolled, Alloy, Carbon, 
Structural, High-Strength Low-Alloy, and High-Strength 
Low-Alloy with Improved Formability, General Require­
ments for 
A749/A749M Specification for Steel, Strip, Carbon and 
High-Strength, Low-Alloy, Hot-Rolled, General Require­
ments for 
A751 Test Methods and Practices for Chemical Analysis of 
Steel Products 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
E18 Test Methods for Rockwell Hardness of Metallic Ma­
terials 
3. Terminology 
3.1 Definitions-For definitions of other terms used in this 
specification refer to Terminology A941. 
3.2 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.2.1 aging, n-loss of ductility with an increase in 
hardness, yield strength, and tensile strength that occurs when 
steel, which has been slightly cold worked (such as by temper 
rolling) is stored for some time. 
3.2.1.1 Discussion-Aging also increases the tendency to­
ward stretcher strains and fluting. 
3.2.2 inclusion control, n-the process of reducing the 
volume fraction of inclusions or modifying the shape of 
inclusions to improve formability, weldability, and machinabil­
ity. 
3.2.2.1 Discussion-Inclusions, especially those elongated 
during the rolling process, create the conditions for initiating or 
propagating cracks when the material is stretched or bent 
during the manufacture of a part (or both). The adverse effects 
of inclusions are minimized by reducing the content of 
inclusions in the steel or by altering the shape of inclusions 
through the use of additions during the steelmaking process 
that change the elongated shape of the inclusions to less 
harmful small, well dispersed globular inclusions (or both). 
* A Summary of Changes section appears at the end of this standard 
1516 