SA-370 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Position 3 
Position 2 (core) 
Position 1 
FIG. A3.7 Hardness Test Locations 
A4. STEEL ROUND WIRE PRODUCTS 
A4.1 Scope 
A4.1. l This annex contains testing requirements for Round 
Wire Products that are specific to the product. The require足
ments contained in this annex are supplementary to those found 
in the general section of this specification. In the case of 
conflict between requirements provided in this annex and those 
found in the general section of this specification, the require足
ments of this annex shall prevail. In the case of conflict 
between requirements provided in this annex and requirements 
found in product specifications, the requirements found in the 
product specification shall prevail. 
A4.2 Apparatus 
A4.2.l Gripping Devices-Giips of either the wedge or 
snubbing types as shown in Figs. A4.1 and A4.2 shall be used 
(see Note A4.1). When using grips of either type, care shall be 
taken that the axis of the test specimen is located approxi足
mately at the center line of the head of the testing machine (see 
Note A4.2). When using wedge grips the liners used behind the 
grips shall be of the proper thickness. 
NoTE A4.l-Testing machines usually are equipped with wedge grips. 
These wedge grips, irrespective of the type of testing machine, may be 
refen-ed to as the "usual type" of wedge grips. The use of fine (180 or 240) 
grit abrasive cloth in the "usual" wedge type grips, with the abrasive 
contacting the wire specimen, cau be helpful in reducing specimen 
SECTION A-A 
FIG. A4.1 Wedge-type Gripping Device 
624 
FIG. A4.2 Snubbing-type Gripping Device 
slipping aud breakage at the grip edges at tensile loads up to about 
1000 lb. For tests of specimens of wire which are liable to be cut at the 
edges by the "usual type" of wedge grips, the snubbing type gripping 
device has proved satisfactory. 
For testing round wire, the use of cylindrical seat in the wedge gripping 
device is optional. 
NoTE A4.2-Any defect in a testing machine which may cause nonaxial 
application of load should be corrected. 
A4.2.2 Pointed Micrometer-A micrometer with a pointed 
spindle and anvil suitable for reading the dimensions of the 
wire specimen at the fractured ends to the nearest 0.001 in. 
(0.025 mm) after breaking the specimen in the testing machine 
shall be used. 
A4.3 Test Specimens 
A4.3.1 Test specimens having the full cross-sectional area 
of the wire they represent shall be used. The standard gauge 
length of the specimens shall be 10 in. (254 mm). However, if 
the determination of elongation values is not required, any 
convenient gauge length is permissible. The total length of the 
specimens shall be at least equal to the gauge length (10 in.) 
plus twice the length of wire required for the full use of the grip 
employed. For example, depending upon the type of testing 
machine and grips used, the minimum total length of specimen 
may vary from 14 to 24 in. (360 to 610 mm) for a 10-in. gauge 
length specimen. 
A4.3.2 Any specimen breaking in the grips shall be dis足
carded and a new specimen tested. 