ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-814/SA-814M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall apply only when specified in the 
purchase order. The purchaser may specify a different frequency of test or analysis than is provided 
in the supplementary requirement. Subject to agreement between the purchaser and manufacturer, 
retest and retreatment provisions of these supplementary requirements may also be modified. 
Sl. Product Analysis 
S 1.1 For all pipe NPS 5 and larger in nominal size, there 
shall be one product analysis made of a representative sample 
from one piece for each ten lengths or fraction thereof from 
each heat of steel. 
Sl.2 For pipe smaller than NPS 5 in nominal size there shall 
be one product analysis made from ten lengths per heat of steel 
or from 10 % of the number of lengths per heat of steel, 
whichever number is smaller. 
S 1.3 Individual lengths failing to conform to the chemical 
requirements specified in Section 6 shall be rejected. 
S2. Transverse Tension Tests 
S2.1 There shall be one transverse tension test made from 
one end of 10 % of the lengths furnished per heat of steel. This 
applies only to pipe NPS 8 and larger in nominal size. 
S2.2 If a specimen from any length fails to conform to the 
tensile properties specified, that length shall be rejected. 
S3. Flattening Test 
S3.1 The flattening test of Specification A999/A999M shall 
be made on a specimen from one or both ends of each pipe. 
Crop ends may be used. If this supplementary requirement is 
specified, the number of tests per pipe shall also be specified. 
If a specimen from any length fails because of ductility prior to 
satisfactory completion of the first step of the flattening test 
requirement, that pipe shall be rejected subject to retreatment 
in accordance with Specification A999/ A999M and satisfac­
tory retest. If a specimen from any length of pipe fails because 
of a lack of soundness, that length shall be rejected, unless 
subsequent retesting indicates that the remaining length is 
sound. 
S4. Etching Tests 
S4.1 The steel shall be homogeneous as shown by etching 
tests conducted in accordance with the appropriate portions of 
Method E381. Etching tests shall be made on a cross section 
from one end or both ends of each pipe and shall show sound 
welds and reasonably uniform material free of injurious 
laminations, cracks, and similar objectionable imperfections. If 
this supplementary requirement is specified, the number of 
tests per pipe required shall also be specified. If a specimen 
from any length shows objectionable imperfections, the length 
shall be rejected subject to the removal of the defective end and 
subsequent retests indicating the remainder of the length to be 
sound and reasonably uniform material. 
S5. Eddy Current Examination 
S5.1 Pipe soundness shall be determined through eddy­
current examination made in accordance with requirements as 
agreed upon between the pipe manufacturer and purchaser. 
S6. Ultrasonic Examination 
S6.1 Pipe soundness shall be determined through ultrasonic 
examination made in accordance with requirements as agreed 
upon between the pipe manufacturer and purchaser. 
S7. Corrosion Requirements 
S7.1 Boiling Nitric Acid Test-Except for Grade TP 321, 
coupons representing finished pipe made of nonmolybdenum­
bearing material (0.50 % and less molybdenum) shall meet the 
requirements Practice C of Practices A262. The condition of 
the test specimens and the corrosion rates are as follows: Types 
304L, 304LN, 347, and Type 348 shall be tested in the 
sensitized condition (heated for 1 hat 1240 °F [670 °C]) and 
the rate of penetration shall not exceed 0.0020 in. 
[0.05 mm]/2nonth. All other nonmolybdenum-bearing types, 
except for Grade TP 321, shown in Table 2 shall be tested in the 
annealed and unsensitized condition and the rate of penetration 
when solution tested in accordance with Practice C shall not 
exceed 0.0015 in./month [0.038 mm/month]. 
S7.2 Acidified Copper Sulfate Test-Coupons representing 
finished pipe made of molybdenum-bearing material (over 
0.50 % molybdenum) and Type 321 shall meet the require­
ments of Practice E of Practices A262. The condition of the test 
specimen is as follows: Types 316L, 316LN, 317L and 321 
shall be tested in the sensitized condition (heated for 1 h at 
1240 °F [670 °C]). All molybdenum-bearing types shown in 
Table 2 shall be tested in the annealed and unsensitized 
condition. All specimens shall meet the requirements of the 
prescribed bend tests. 
S8. Flange Test 
S8. l A section of pipe shall be capable of having a flange 
turned over at a right angle to the body of the pipe without 
cracking. The width of the flange shall be not less than 15 % of 
the oustide diameter of the pipe. 
1329 