ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
D1scussroN-Unlike burning, it may be possible to restore the 
original properties/microstructure by further heat treatment or mechani­
cal working, or a combination thereof. 
patenting, n-in wire making, heat treatment of a medium­
carbon or high-carbon steel wire or wire rod that includes 
heating to a temperature above Ac 3 but below normal hot 
working temperatures, followed directly without hot work­
ing by controlled cooling to achieve a uniform microstruc­
ture suitable for cold working and typically characterized by 
pearlite having a fine interlamellar spacing. 
DiscussION-The method used for controlled cooling is often used to 
describe the type of patenting. Examples include but are not limited to, 
air patenting, salt patenting, fluidized bed patenting, and lead patenting. 
Furthermore, double lead patenting describes a patenting process in 
which molten lead is used not only for the controlled cooling, but also 
for the heating to a temperature above Ac 3 • 
plate-as-rolled, n-the quantity of plate product rolled at one 
time, either from a)l individual slab or directly from an ingot. 
Discuss10N-This term does not refer to the surface condition or the 
heat-treatment state of the material; a plate-as-rolled may be in the 
as-rolled condition, or may have received one or more surface 
treatments or heat treatments, or both. 
post-weld heat treatment, n-heating weldments immediately 
after welding, to provide tempering, stress relieving, or a 
controlled rate of cooling to prevent formation of a hard or 
brittle microstructure. 
precipitation hardening, n-hardening caused by the pre­
cipitation of a constituent from a supersaturated solid so~u­
tion. 
precipitation heat treatment, n-artificial aging in which a 
constituent precipitates from a supersaturated solid solution. 
preheating, n-heating before welding, a mechanical 
treatment, or some further thermal treatment. 
preheating, n-for tool steels, heating to an intermediate 
temperature immediately before final austenitizing. 
primary heat, n-the product of a single cycle of a batch 
melting process. 
DiscussroN-In the investment casting industry, the term master heat 
is used. 
process annealing, n-in the sheet and wire industries, heating 
a steel object to a temperature close to, but below, Ac 1 and 
then cooling it, in order to soften it for further cold working. 
product analysis, n-a chemical analysis of a specimen taken 
from the semi-finished product or the finished product. 
progressive aging, n-aging by increasing the temperature in 
steps, or continuously, during the aging cycle. 
quench aging, n-aging associated with quenching after 
solution heat treatment. 
quench hardening, n-hardening a steel object by austen­
itizing it, and then cooling it rapidly enough that some or all 
of the austenite transforms to martensite. 
DiscussioN-The austenitizing temperature is usually above Ac 3 for 
hypoeutectoid steels and between Ac 1 and Accm for hypereutectoid 
steels. 
quenching, n-rapid cooling in a fluid at a rate sufficient to 
preserve or produce desired material characteristics. 
DiscussmN-Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: fog quenching, hot quenching, inter­
rupted quenching, selective quenching, spray quenching, and time 
quenching. Quenching is often used in solution heat treatment of 
austenitic steels to retain certain constituents in solution. Quenching is 
also used for ferritic steels to develop desired characteristics ( such as 
microstructure or toughness) in thicker sections that can otherwise only 
be achieved in thinner sections. Liquids and gasses are both fluids. 
recrystallization, n-the formation of a new grain structure 
through a nucleation and growth process. 
DIScussION-This is commonly produced by subjecting a steel 
object, which may be strained, to suitable conditions of time and 
temperature. 
recrystallization annealing, n-annealing a cold-worked 
steel object to produce a new grain structure without a 
change in phase. 
recrystallization temperature, n-the approximate minimum 
temperature at which recrystallization of a cold-worked steel 
object occurs within a specified time. 
remelted heat, n-the product of the remelting of a primary 
heat, in whole or in part. 
DrscussroN-In the investment casting industry, the term sub-heat is 
used. 
residual element, n-in steel, a specified or unspecified 
element, not intentionally added, originating in the raw 
materials, refractories, or surrounding atmospheres used in 
steel making. 
rimmed steel, n-a steel that contained sufficient oxygen to 
generate carbon monoxide at the boundary between the solid 
metal and the remaining molten metal during solidification, 
resulting in an outer layer low in carbon. 
secondary hardening, n-the hardening phenomenon that 
occurs during high-temperature tempering of certain steels 
containing one or more carbide-forming alloying elements. 
selective heating, n-intentionally heating only certain por­
tions of a steel object. 
selective quenching, n-quenching only certain portions of a 
steel object. 
semicontinuous-conveyance furnace, n-a heating device 
through which steel objects are intentionally moved in 
accordance with a predetermined start-stop-start pattern 
during the thermal processing cycle. 
semikilled steel, n-an incompletely deoxidized steel that 
contained sufficient oxygen to form enough entrapped car­
bon monoxide during solidification to offset solidification 
shrinkage. 
shell hardening, n-a surface hardening process in which a 
suitable steel object, when heated through and quench 
hardened, develops a martensitic layer or shell that closely 
follows the contour of the piece and surrounds a core of 
essentially pearlitic transformation product. 
1385 