'----
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-47 /SA-47M 
APPENDIX 
(Nonmandatory Information) 
Xl. MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF 
CASTINGS 
Xl.1 The mechanical properties of malleable iron cast­
ings are influenced by a number of factors, including the 
cooling rate during solidification, chemical composition, 
the heat treatment, the design of the casting, section thick­
ness, and the location and effectiveness of gates, risers, 
and chills. 
Xl.2 Because of the complexity of these factors in 
influencing the properties of the final product, no precise 
quantitative relationship can be stated between the proper­
ties of the iron in various locations of the same casting or 
between the properties of a casting and those of a test 
specimen cast from the same iron. When such a relationship 
is important and must be known for a specific application, 
it may be determined by appropriate experimentation. 
Xl.3 The specimen specified in 7 .2.1 as the. standard 
tensile test bar for malleable iron has a ¾ in. [16 mm] 
diameter test section that reasonably represents a typical 
section of the general run of malleable iron castings. Fur­
thermore, the initial freezing of malleable irons as homoge­
neous white iron, together with the heat treatment that is 
inherent in the manufacture of malleable iron, tends to 
reduce the section-sensitivity effect. Therefore, where 
experimentation into precise properties within a given cast­
ing would be infeasible, this standard test bar, made like 
any typical casting, should provide a practical approxima­
tion of the properties that can be expected in average sound 
malleable iron casting. 
Xl.4 If malleable iron castings are welded, the micro­
structure of the iron is markedly affected, particularly in 
the heat-affected zone. Therefore, since this may adversely 
affect the properties of the casting, the welding of malleable 
iron castings should be done under strict metallurgical 
control, followed by appropriate post-weld heat treatment, 
to minimize the substantial reductions in ductility, impact 
resistance, and machinability that could result, particularly 
in the vicinity of the weldment. Nevertheless, it is generally 
considered inadvisable to join castings to similar castings 
or to other materials, by fusion welding out in the field, 
or in manufactured assemblies, without fully testing the 
entire completed part. 
137 