SA-484/SA-484M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Nom I-Camber or bow tolerances shall not exceed 0.025 in. 
[0.60 mm] x length in ft [m/3]. 
Camber tolerances for hot finished or extruded shapes camber (or bow) 
is the greatest deviation of a side from a straight line. Measurement is 
taken on the concave side of the shapes with a straight edge. 
FIG. 1 Camber or Bow Tolerances 
NoTE I-Allowable deviation from flat is max 0.010 in. [0.25 mm] per 
l in. [25 mm] of width. Maximum deviation on dimensions of less than 
1 in. [25 mm] is 0.010 in. [0.250 mm]. 
The transverse flatness tolerance is the maximum deviation from a 
reference base across any cross-section flat surface. 
FIG. 2 Transverse Flatness Tolerances 
14.1.2 Tension Tests-Test Methods and Definitions A370. 
14.1.3 Stress Rupture-Test Methods E139. 
14.1.4 Brinell Hardness-Test Methods and Definitions 
A370. 
14.1.5 Rockwell Hardness-Test Methods and Definitions 
A370. 
14.1.6 lntergranular Corrosion-Practice E of Practices 
A262. 
14.1.7 Grain Size-Test Methods E112. 
14.1.8 Charpy V-notch Impact Test-Test Methods and 
Definitions A370. 
15. Inspection 
15.1 Civilian Procurement-Inspection of the material shall 
be as agreed upon between the purchaser and the supplier as 
part of the purchase contract. 
15.2 Government Procurement-Unless otherwise specified 
in the contract or purchase order, the seller is responsible for 
the performance of all inspection and test requirements in this 
specification, the seller is permitted to use their own facilities 
or other suitable facilities for the performance of the inspection 
and testing, and the purchaser shall have the right to perform 
any of the inspection and tests set forth in this specification. 
The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector all 
reasonable facilities necessary to satisfy purchaser that the 
material is being furnished in accordance with the specifica­
tion. Inspection by the purchaser shall not interfere unneces­
sarily with the manufacturer. 
16. Rejection and Rehearing 
16.1 The purchaser is permitted to reject material that fails 
to conform to the requirements of this specification. Rejection 
shall be reported to the producer or supplier promptly, prefer-
ably in writing. In case of dissatisfaction with the results of a 
test, the producer or supplier is permitted to make claim for a 
rehearing. 
17. Certification 
17 .1 A report of the results of all tests required by the 
product specification shall be supplied to the purchaser. This 
material test report shall reference the product specification 
designation and year date indicating that the material was 
manufactured, sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance 
with requirements of the product specification and has been 
found to meet those requirements. The material test report shall 
report the melting process when the purchase order requires 
either a specific type of melting or requires that the melting 
process used is to be reported. 
17 .1.1 The report shall indicate the type of steel. If certify­
ing that the material conforms to the requirements for more 
than one type of steel, the manufacturer may indicate each type 
of steel on the report, or may issue a separate report for each 
type of steel. 
17 .2 A signature is not required on the report. However, the 
document shall clearly identify the organization submitting the 
report. Not withstanding the absence of a signature, the 
organization submitting the document is responsible for its 
content. 
17.3 A document printed from or used in electronic form 
from an electronic data interchange (EDI) transmission shall be 
regarded as having the same validity as a counterpart printed in 
the certifier's facility. The content of the EDI transmitted 
document shall meet the requirements of the invoked ASTM 
standard(s) and conform to any existing EDI agreement be­
tween the purchaser and the supplier. Not withstanding the 
absence of a signature, the organization submitting the EDI 
transmission is responsible for the content of the report. 
NoTE 3-The industry definition of EDI invoked herein is the 
computer-to-computer exchange of business information in a standard 
format such as ANSI ASC X12. 
824 
17.4 When finished material is supplied to a purchase order 
specifying the product specification, the organization supply­
ing that material shall provide the purchaser with a copy of the 
original manufacturer's test report. 
17.4.1 When the original manufacturer's test report was 
provided by EDI to the organization supplying the finished 
material to the purchaser, the organization supplying the 
finished material shall provide to the purchaser a printed form 
of the original test report or shall retransmit the test report by 
EDI to the purchaser. In either case, the test report shall be 
complete with the full identification of the original manufac­
turer and with all data provided on the test report of the original 
manufacturer. 
18. Product Marking 
18.1 Civilian Procurement: 
18.1.1 Bars and shapes shall be marked or tagged with the 
name of manufacturer, purchaser's name and order number, 
ASTM specification designation, heat number, grade or type, 
condition, finish, and where appropriate, the size, length, and 
weight. Uruess otherwise specified, the method of marking is at 
~· 