SA-587 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Electric-Resistance-Welded Low-Carbon Steel Pipe for the 
Chemical Industry 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers electric-resistance-welded 
low-carbon steel pipe intended for use as process lines. 
1.2 Pipe ordered under this specification shall be suitable for 
severe forming operations involving flanging in all sizes and 
bending to close radii up to and including NPS 4. 
1.3 This specification covers NPS ½ through 10, plus 
additional sizes. The corresponding outside diameters and wall 
thicknesses for NPS ½ through 10 are listed in Table 1, as are 
the dimensions for the additional sizes. 
Norn 1-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.4 The values stated in inch-pound units are to be regarded 
as standard. The values given in parentheses are mathematical 
conversions to SI units that are provided for information only 
and are not considered standard. 
1.5 DELETED 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A53/A53M Specification for Pipe, Steel, Black and Hot­
Dipped, Zinc-Coated, Welded and Seamless 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A530/A530M Specification for General Requirements for 
Specialized Carbon and Alloy Steel Pipe 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
E213 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of Metal Pipe and 
Tubing 
E273 Practice for Ultrasonic Testing of the Weld Zone of 
Welded Pipe and Tubing 
E309 Practice for Eddy-Current Examination of Steel Tubu­
lar Products Using Magnetic Saturation 
E570 Practice for Flux Leakage Examination of Ferromag­
netic Steel Tubular Products 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 Orders for material under this specification should 
include the following as required to describe the desired 
material adequately: 
3.1.1 Quantity (feet or number of pieces), 
3.1.2 Name of material (electric-resistance-welded steel 
pipe), 
3.1.3 Size (NPS or outside diameter and wall thickness), 
3.1.4 Length (definite cut length or random), 
3.1.5 Test report required (see 14.2), 
3.1.6 Specification number, and 
3.1.7 Special requirements. 
4. Materials and Manufacture 
4.1 Process-The steel shall be aluminum killed steel made 
by one or more of the following processes: open-hearth, 
basic-oxygen, or electric-furnace. 
4.2 Steel may be cast in ingots or may be strand cast. When 
steels of different grades are sequentially strand cast, identifi­
cation of the resultant transition material is required. The 
producer shall remove the transition material by any estab­
lished procedure that positively separates the grades. 
4.3 Manufacture-The pipe shall be made by electric resis­
tance welding. 
4.4 Heat Treatment-Pipe furnished in the as-welded con­
dition shall be normalized at a temperature above the upper 
1024 
, ~ , 