SA-263 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Standard Specification for 
Stainless Chromium Steel-Clad Plate 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers plate of a carbon steel or 
low-alloy steel base to which is integrally and continuously 
bonded on one or both sides a layer of stainless chromium 
steel. The material is generally intended for pressure vessel 
use. 
1.2 The values stated in inch-pound units are to be regarded 
as standard. The values given in parentheses are mathematical 
conversions to SI units that are provided for information only 
and are not considered standard. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A6/ A6M Specification for General Requirements for Rolled 
Structural Steel Bars, Plates, Shapes, and Sheet Piling 
A20/ A20M Specification for General Requirements for Steel 
Plates for Pressure Vessels 
A240/ A240M Specification for Chromium and Chromium­
Nickel Stainless Steel Plate, Sheet, and Strip for Pressure 
Vessels and for General Applications 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A480/ A480M Specification for General Requirements for 
Flat-Rolled Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip 
AS78/AS78M Specification for Straight-Beam Ultrasonic 
Examination of Rolled Steel Plates for Special Applica­
tions 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
2.2 Other Standards: 
ASME Code Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX, 
Welding Qualifications 
3. Terminology 
3 .1 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
3.1.1 This material is considered as single-clad or double­
clad stainless chromium-steel plate, depending on whether one 
or both sides are covered. 
3.1.2 alloy cladding-the stainless chromium steel compo­
nent of the composite plate. 
3.1.3 base metal (backing steel)-component to which the 
alloy cladding is applied, usually the greater percentage of the 
composite plate. 
3.1.4 integrally and continuously bonded-a condition in 
which the alloy cladding and base metal are brought together to 
form a metallurgical bond at essentially the entire interface of 
the two metals by means other than those processes that do not 
produce a homogeneous composite plate. 
4. Ordering Information 
374 
4.1 It is the responsibility of the purchaser to specify all 
requirements that are necessary for material ordered under this 
specification. Such requirements may include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
4.1.1 Quantity (weight or number of pieces). 
4.1.2 Cladding alloy specification (UNS or ASTM Specifi­
cation A240/ A240M) and whether cladding is for corrosion 
allowance only. 
4.1.3 Base metal specification. 
4.1.4 Bond integrity Class (1, 3, or S; see Section 13). 
4.1.S Dimensions including the minimum or nominal thick-
nesses of the cladding alloy and the backing steel, or of the 
total composite and if more or less restrictive thickness 
tolerances apply. 
4.1.6 Product analysis, ifrequired (see Section 10). Specify 
whether applicable to the cladding alloy, backing steel, or both. 