ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-20/SA-ZOM 
72 in. [1800 mm] or less shall be in at least one place on each 
finished plate, approximately midway between the center and 
an edge of the plate. 
13.4 Subdivided Plates: 
13.4.1 By agreement between the purchaser and the manu­
facturer or processor, each subdivided plate (a plate separated 
from a master plate) shall be legibly marked with the name, 
brand, or trademark of the organization that subdivided the 
plate plus a code traceable to the required markings, provided 
that the information required in 13.1, cross referenced to that 
code, is furnished with the plates. 
13.4.2 By agreement between the purchaser and the manu­
facturer or processor, subdivided plates that are from the same 
master plate and placed in secured lifts shall have the infor­
mation required in 13.1 paint marked on the top piece of each 
lift or shown on a substantial tag attached to each lift. 
13.5 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements of 13.1 to 
13.4 inclusive, the manufacturer or processor shall have the 
option of using bar coding as a supplementary identification 
method. 
Norn 3-Bar coding should be consistent with AIAG Standard B 1. 
14. Permissible Variations in Dimensions or Mass 
14.1 One cubic foot of rolled steel shall be assumed to 
weigh 490 lb, unless otherwise stated in the applicable product 
specification. One cubic metre of rolled steel is assumed to 
have a mass of 7850 kg, unless otherwise stated in the 
applicable product specification. 
14.2 For carbon steel plates the permissible variations for 
dimensions shall not exceed the applicable limits stated in 
Annex Al, Table Al.I to Table Al.9, and Table Al.13 [Annex 
A2, Table A2.1 to Table A2.9, and Table A2.13]. 
14.3 For alloy steel plates the permissible variations for 
dimensions shall not exceed the applicable limits stated in 
Annex 1, Table Al.I to Table Al.4, Table Al.8, and Table 
Al.IO to Table Al.13 [Annex 2, Table A2.l to Table A2.4, 
Table A2.8 and Table A2.10 to Table A2.13]. 
14.4 Permitted vaiiations on length and width for plates 
supplied on other than strip mills as mill edge shall be at the 
discretion of the manufacturer unless otherwise agreed to with 
the purchaser. For mill edge carbon steel, high-strength low­
alloy, and alloy plates produced on strip mills, the permitted 
variation in width shall not exceed the applicable limit stated in 
Table Al.17 [A2.16]. For mill edge carbon steel, high-strength 
low-alloy, and alloy plates produced on mill other than strip 
mills the permitted variation in width stated in Table Al.17 
[A2.16] may be specified only upon agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. Mill edge plates as delivered 
shall be capable of being trimmed by the purchaser to the 
required final rectangular size ordered. 
14.5 Conversions of Permitted Variations from Fractions of 
an Inch to Decimals-Pennitted variations in dimensions for 
products covered by this specification are generally given as 
fractions of inch and these remain the official permitted 
variations, where so stated. If the material is to be measured by 
equipment reporting dimensions as decimals, conversion of 
77 
permitted variations from fractions of an inch to decimals shall 
be made to three decimal places; using the rounding method 
prescribed in Practice E29. 
15. Inspection and Testing 
15.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being pe1formed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the plate ordered. The manu­
facturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities to be 
satisfied that the plate is being furnished in accordance with 
this general requirements specification, the applicable product 
specification, and the purchase order. All tests (except product 
analysis) and inspection shall be made at the place of manu­
facture prior to shipment, unless otherwise specified, and shall 
be so conducted as not to inte1fere unnecessarily with the 
operation of the manufacturer's works. 
15.2 If plates are produced from coil, 15.1 shall apply to the 
"processor" instead of to the "manufacturer" and the "place of 
process" shall apply instead of the "place of manufacture." If 
plates are produced from coil and the processor is different 
from the manufacturer, the inspector representing the purchaser 
shall have free entry, at all times while work on the contract of 
the purchaser is being performed, to all parts of the manufac­
turer's works that concern the manufacture of the plate 
ordered. 
16. Retests 
16.1 Tension Test-In addition to the prov1s1ons of Test 
Methods and Definitions A370, the following retest provisions 
shall apply: 
16.1.1 If any test specimen shows defective machining, or 
develops flaws, it may be discarded and another test specimen 
substituted. 
16.1.2 If the percentage of elongation of any tension test 
specimen is less than that specified, and any part of the fracture 
is more than ¾ in. [20 mm] from the center of the gage length 
of a 2-in. [50-mm] test specimen or is outside the middle half 
of the gage length of an 8-in. [200-mm] test specimen as 
indicated by scribe marks on the test specimen before testing, 
one retest shall be allowed. 
16.1.3 If the results from an original tension test specimen 
fail to meet the specified requirements but are within 2 ksi [10 
MPa] of the required tensile strength or within 1 ksi [5 MPa] 
of the required yield strength or yield point, or within 2 
percentage points of the required elongation or reduction of 
area, one retest shall be pennitted to replace the failing test. 
16.1.4 The results of the retest shall meet the specified 
requirements. 
16.2 Charpy V-Notch Tests: 
16.2.1 The retest provisions of Test Methods and Defini­
tions A370 shall apply, except that the 5 ft·lbf [7 J] absolute 
minimum for an individual specimen shall not apply if two 
thirds of the specified minimum average is less than 5 ft-lbf [7 
J]. 
16.2.2 If Charpy V-notch impact test lateral expansion 
values are specified, if the value of one specimen falls below 
the specified minimum value and not below 2/3 of the specified 