ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
necessary to choose different temperature intervals in or­
der to adequately reflect the evolution of the properties. 
In such cases, the interval between successive test tem­
peratures shall be chosen such that rupture lives do not 
differ by more than a factor of 10 at any given stress for 
two adjacent temperatures. Data to be reported include 
stress, temperature, time to rupture, and elongation. Re­
duction of area shall also be reported, if feasible. 
Post-test metallographic evaluation shall be performed 
on at least three test specimens including the longest­
duration test samples at the time of submission of test 
samples. The assessment should be done on actual test 
specimens that were tested at temperatures within the 
range between the minimum time-dependent tempera­
ture and the maximum intended use temperature. The as­
sessment shall include macro-images to document the 
overall appearance (oxidation, necking, intergranular 
fracture, etc.), as well as micro-images to document the 
extent of cavitation damage and grain size. 
Except as provided further below, the longest rupture 
time at each test temperature shall be in excess of 
10,000 hr for each required heat. At least three additional 
tests shall be conducted for each required heat at each 
test temperature, at stresses selected to provide shorter 
rupture times but at least 500 hr (e.g., 500 hr, 1,400 hr, 
and 4,000 hr). For precipitation-strengthened alloys, the 
shortest test duration considered in the allowable stress 
analysis values is 1,000 hr. At successive temperatures, 
two or more tests should be conducted at nearly the same 
stress value. 
Alternative test plans that deviate from the prior de­
scription but achieve the overall objective may be consid­
ered. This may, in particular, apply to solid solution alloys 
for which the stability of strength-controlling microstruc­
tures is certain. For precipitation-strengthened materials, 
an emphasis shall be placed on relevant test conditions 
suitably below the yield strength. 
For new materials for which the expectation of reason­
able stability of strength-controlling microstructures is 
uncertain or suspect, and for extension of allowable 
stresses of more familiar classes of alloys into much high­
er temperature applications where such stability might 
come into question, creep-rupture data with duration of 
more than 30,000 hr is required at ±50°F (±25°C) of the 
maximum intended use temperature. This long-term da~ 
can be supplemented with relevant or equivalent service 
experience. A Code Case may be approved bas.ed on short­
er duration test data, but inclusion of the material into 
one of the sections of the BPV Code may be deferred until 
longer-term creep-rupture data are available or until 
sufficient service experience is obtained to provide confi­
dence that extrapolations from the existing database rea­
sonably describe the long-term behavior of the material. 
For at least two heats, strain-time plots or minimum 
creep rate (MCR) data shall be provided for at least three 
test stresses at each test temperature, including at least 
one stress for each material resulting in MCR values be­
low 3x10- 4 %/hr. Creep rate data may be obtained from 
instrumented stress-rupture tests or may be obtained on 
additional test specimens. 
IV-1000 LOW-TEMPERATURE PROPERTIES 
If use of the material below room temperature is con­
templated, data should be provided at appropriate tem­
peratures down to the lowest contemplated use 
temperature. 
IV-1100 TOUGHNESS DATA 
Toughness data shall be provided for materials for 
which Construction Code toughness rules would be ex­
pected to apply. The test requirements shall be as re­
quired by the requested Construction Code(s). The data 
shall include test results for the intended lowest service 
metal temperature and for the range of material thick­
nesses desired. 
IV-1200 STRESS-STRAIN CURVES 
If the material is to be used in components that operate 
under compressive loads (e.g., external pressure), stress­
strain plots (tension or compression)shall be furnished 
for each of the three heats of material at 100°F (50°C) in­
tervals from room temperature up to 100°F (50°C) above 
the maximum temperature desired. 1 Engineering stress­
strain data (stress versus strain) shall be provided in 
the form of stress-strain plots and digitized data, from 
which the plots were derived, in tabular form up to 
1.2% strain. Digitized data shall be provided at intervals 
no greater than 0.01 % strain. In addition, the minimum 
yield strength,2 modulus of elasticity, 3 and proportional 
limit, for materials where a proportional limit can be 
identified, shall be reported for each temperature. The 
stress-strain plots (not load versus extension) shall be 
determined using a Class B-2 or better-accuracy extens­
ometer as defined in ASTM E83. The plots shall include 
gridlines with the units marked on the gridlines: for 
strain, minor gridlines at intervals of 0.01% and major 
1 Since most materials are, in many applications, used in components that operate under compressive loads, the Committee recommends 
that stress-strain plots as described above should always be included in the data package submitted in support of the application for any 
new material. 
2 The term minimum yield strength, as used here, means the yield strength values that are derived from the analysis of the tensile data re­
quired elsewhere in these Guidelines. 
3 Modulus of elasticity values shall be determined by dynamic methods such as ASTM Test Method E1876 (latest edition) or other interna-
tional equivalent. • 
1630 