SA-409/SA-409M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Welded Large Diameter Austenitic Steel Pipe for Corrosive 
or High-Temperature Service 
1. Scope 
1. 1 This specification covers straight seam or spiral seam 
electric-fusion-welded, light-wall, austenitic chromium-nickel 
alloy steel pipe for corrosive or high-temperature service. The 
sizes covered are NPS 14 to 30 with extra light (Schedule 5S) 
and light (Schedule lOS) wall thicknesses. Table Xl.1 shows 
the wall thickness of Schedule 5S and lOS pipe. Pipe having 
other dimensions may be furnished provided such pipe com­
plies with all other requirements of this specification. 
1.2 Several grades of alloy steel are covered as indicated in 
Table 1. 
1.3 Optional supplementary requirements are provided. 
These call for additional tests to be made, and when desired 
shall be stated in the order, together with the number of such 
tests required. 
1.4 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. 
Norn 1-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as nominal 
diameter, size, and nominal size. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A262 Practices for Detecting Susceptibility to Intergranular 
Attack in Austenitic Stainless Steels 
A480/A480M Specification for General Requirements for 
Flat-Rolled Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, 
Sheet, and Strip 
A999/A999M Specification for General Requirements for 
Alloy and Stainless Steel Pipe 
E527 Practice for Numbering Metals and Alloys in the 
Unified Numbering System (UNS) 
2.2 ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code: 
Section III 
Section VIII, Division 1 
Section IX 
2.3 A WS Standards: 
686 
A 5.22 Flux Cored Arc Welding 
A 5.30 Consumable Weld Inserts for Gas Tungsten Arc 
Welding 
A 5.4 Corrosion-Resisting Chromium and Chromium­
Nickel Steel Covered Welding Electrodes 
A 5.9 Corrosion-Resisting Chromium and Chromium­
Nickel Steel Welding Rods and Bare Electrodes 
A 5.11 Nickel and Nickel-Alloy Covered Welding Elec­
trodes 
A 5.14 Nickel and Nickel-Alloy Bare Welding Rods and 
Electrodes 
2.4 Other Standard: 
SAE J1086 Practice for Numbering Metals and Alloys 
(UNS) 