SA-437 /SA-437M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Stainless and Alloy-Steel Turbine-Type Bolting Specially 
Heat Treated for High-Temperature Service 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers stainless and alloy-steel bolt­
ing material and bolting components specially heat treated for 
high-temperature service, such as steam turbine, gas turbine, 
and similar uses. See Specification A962/A962M for the 
definition of bolting. This material requires special processing 
and should not be used in general-purpose applications. Bolt­
ing furnished as bars shall be hot wrought and may be further 
processed by centerless grinding or by cold drawing. 
1.2 The high-temperature properties of the bolting materials 
and components covered by this specification are dependent 
upon special heat treatment, which is required. Although the 
high-temperature properties are not specified, they are implied 
by control of the chemistry, heat treatment, and room­
temperature properties of the bolting material. 
1.3 Three levels of bolting strength are covered, designated 
Grades B4B, B4C, and B4D. 
1.4 The following referenced general requirements are in­
dispensable for application of this specification: Specification 
A962/ A962M. 
1.5 Supplementary requirements are provided for use at the 
option of the purchaser. The supplementary requirements shall 
apply only when specified individually by the purchaser in the 
purchase order or contract. 
1.6 This specification is expressed in both inch-pound units 
and in SI units; however, unless the purchase order or contract 
specifies the applicable M specification designation (SI units), 
the inch-pound units shall apply. 
1. 7 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
718 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. 
1.8 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A962/A962M Specification for Common Requirements for 
Bolting Intended for Use at Any Temperature from Cryo­
genic to the Creep Range 
E292 Test Methods for Conducting Time-for-Rupture Notch 
Tension Tests of Materials 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 It shall be the responsibility of the purchaser to specify 
all requirements necessary for product under this specification. 
Such requirements to be considered include, but are not limited 
to, the following: 
3.1.1 Specification designation, grade, issue date, and revi-
sion letter, 
3.1.2 Quantity (weight or number of pieces), 
3.1.3 Description (bars, bolts, nuts, etc.), 
3.1.4 Dimensions, 
3.1.S Finish, and 
3.1.6 Impact testing of nuts, if required (see Section 8). 
4. Common Requirements 
4.1 Bolting materials and bolting components supplied to 
this specification shall conform to the requirements of Speci­
fication A962/ A962M. These requirements include test 