SA-134/SA-134M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Pipe, Steel, Electric-Fusion (Arc)-Welded (Sizes NPS 16 and 
Over) 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers electric-fusion (arc)-welded 
straight seam or spiral seam steel pipe NPS 16 and over in 
diameter (inside or outside as specified by purchaser), with 
wall thicknesses up to ¾ in. [19 mm], inclusive. Pipe having 
other dimensions may be furnished provided such pipe com­
plies with all other requirements of this specification. The pipe 
is available in various grades based on the ASTM specification 
ordered (Section 4). 
Note 1-Acceptability for many services may be controlled by codes 
or standards such as those published by the American National Standards 
Institute and American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Note 2-For testing methods not specifically covered in this 
specification, reference can be made to Test Methods and Definitions 
A370, with particular reference to Annex A2 on Steel Tubular Products. 
Note 3-A comprehensive listing of standardized pipe dimensions is 
contained in ANSI B 36.10. 
1.2 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. In this 
specification hard or rationalized conversions apply to 
diameter, lengths, and tensile properties. Soft conversion ap­
plies to other SI measurements. 
Note 4-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.3 The following caveat pertains specifically to Section 5 
of this specification. This standard does not purport to address 
all of the safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is 
the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish 
180 
appropriate safety, health, and environmental practices and 
determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to 
use. 
l.4 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A36/A36M Specification for Carbon Structural Steel 
A283/ A283M Specification for Low and Intermediate Ten­
sile Strength Carbon Steel Plates 
A285/ A285M Specification for Pressure Vessel Plates, Car­
bon Steel, Low- and Intermediate-Tensile Strength 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
A1011/A1011M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
A1018/A1018M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Heavy-Thickness Coils, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, 
Commercial, Drawing, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
Al058 Test Methods for Mechanical Testing of Steel 
Products-Metric 
2.2 ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code: 
Section Ill 
Section IX 