ASME BPVC.U.A-2025 SA-803 /SA-803M 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
The following supplementary requirements may become a part of the specification when specified 
in the inquiry or invitation to bid and pm-chase order or contract. These requirements shall not be 
considered, unless specified in the order, in which event the necessary tests shall be made by the 
manufacturer prior to the bending or shipment of the tubing. 
Sl. Nondestructive Eddy-Current Test 
S 1.1 Each tube in the finished condition, except for bending 
if that is required, shall be tested by passing it through an 
electric nondestrnctive tester capable of detecting defects on 
the entire cross section of the tube. Suitable instrumentation 
shall be used to clearly distinguish the artificial defects. The 
outside and inside surfaces of the tubes shall be free of loose 
scale, metallic particles, or other material that would tend to 
restrict signals or create electrical noise. The tubing shall be 
inspected by feeding it longitudinally through an inspection 
coil or coils with a diameter suitable for the diameter of tubing 
to be inspected. The instrument calibration shall be accom­
plished with a reference standard prepared from the approp1iate 
length of selected tubing of the same size, grade, and physical 
condition as the material to be inspected. The standard shall be 
fed through the coil at the same speed that the inspection of the 
tubing is performed. 
Sl.2 The factors listed in S1.3 shall be selected or adjusted, 
or both, in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's 
instrnctions, for the particular instrument involved as required 
to achieve optimum instrument distinction between the refer­
ence defects and plain portions of the tube. 
S 1.3 The following as well as other factors involved shall 
not be used in such a manner that they detract from the overall 
ability of the instrument to detect defects: test frequency, 
direct-cmTent saturation level, filter networks, phase-analysis 
circuits, coil diameter, and instrument gain. 
Sl.4 The reference standard shall consist of a defect-free 
sample of the same size, alloy, and condition (temper) as that 
being tested, and shall contain longitudinal and circumferential 
notches on the outside diameter establishing the rejection level 
of the tubing to be tested. Inside diameter notches, both 
longitudinal and transverse, shall also be a part of the reference 
standard. These inside notches may be larger than the outside 
notches, and are intended for use only to assure instrument 
phase settings capable of yielding optimum inside surface 
sensitivity. 
S 1.4.1 All notches shall be produced by EDM methods. The 
outside diameter notches shall be of the dimensions shown in 
Table S 1.1. See also Fig. S LI. 
S 1.5 All tubing shall meet this specification. The instrument 
calibration shall be verified at the start of testing, after any shut 
down of the test equipment, after any test equipment 
adjustment, or at least every V2 h of continuous production 
testing, or both. Tubes generating a signal above the outside­
diameter calibration standard sensitivity level shall be rejected. 
S 1.6 Tubes may be reconditioned and retested provided 
reconditioning does not adversely effect the minimum wall 
thickness or other properties of the tube specification require-
OD, in. 
[mm] 
% to 1 
[15.9 to 
25.4] 
incl 
TABLE S1 .1 Notch DepthA 
Length, Wall, in. 
[mm] 
Depth, max 
in. [mm] max, in. Width, max 
0.028 
[0.71] and 
heavier 
[mm] 
0.005 [0.12] or 10.8 % 0.375 
of specified average [9.52] 
wall (when average 
wall is ordered), or 
11.8 % of specified 
minimum wall (when 
minimum wall is 
ordered), whichever is 
greater 
wall thickness, 
but not greater 
than 0.062 in. 
[1.6 mm] 
A The tolerance of notch depth shall be± 8 % or± 0.0005 in. [0.01 mm], whichever 
is greater. Reier to Fig. 81, 1 for notch location orientation and length of calibration 
standard. 
INSIDE NOTCHES 
1!l0° FROM OUTSIDE 
NOTCHES 
FIG. S1 .1 Eddy-Current Test Standard 
ments. Upon agreement between purchaser and manufacturer, 
the referee method, employing ultrasonic testing, may be 
employed for retesting tubes rejected by the eddy-current test. 
The calibration standard for this test shall be identical to that 
required for the eddy-current test. 
S2. Nondestructive Eddy-Current Testing (Select Com­
mercial Grade) 
S2. l The manufacturer shall test the tubing using the 
procedure outlined in Supplementary Requirement SI, except 
for the notch standards, which shall be as indicated in Table 
S2.1. 
S3. Report 
S3.1 A report shall be furnished by the manufacturer to 
include a record of all tests performed to qualify material to 
this specification. This record shall include numbers of tests 
performed and qualitative or quantitative results as are appli­
cable. 
1311 