SA-6/SA-6M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
considers appropriate, provided that the purchaser is informed 
of the procedure followed in heat treating the test coupons. 
6.3 Where the heat treatment is to be performed by the 
manufacturer or the processor, the structural product shall be 
heat treated as specified in the applicable product specification, 
or as specified in the purchase order, provided that the heat 
treatment specified by the purchaser is not in conflict with the 
requirements of the applicable product specification. 
6.4 Where normalizing is to be performed by the fabricator, 
the structural product shall be either normalized or heated 
uniformly for hot forming, provided that the temperature to 
which the structural product is heated for hot forming does not 
significantly exceed the normalizing temperature. 
6.5 The use of cooling rates that are faster than those 
obtained by cooling in air to improve the toughness shall be 
subject to approval by the purchaser, and structural products so 
treated shall be tempered subsequently in the range from 1100 
to 1300°F [595 to 705°C]. 
7. Chemical Analysis 
7.1 Heat Analysis: 
7 .1.1 Sampling for chemical analysis and methods of analy­
sis shall be in accordance with Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751. 
7.1.2 For each heat, the heat analysis shall include determi­
nation of the content of carbon, manganese, phosphorus, sulfur, 
silicon, nickel, chromium, molybdenum, copper, vanadium, 
columbium (niobium); any other element that is specified or 
restricted by the applicable product specification for the 
applicable grade, class, and type; and any austenitic grain 
refining element whose content is to be used in place of 
austenitic grain size testing of the heat (see 8.3.2). Boron shall 
be reported if intentionally added. 
NoTE 3-For steels that do not have intentional boron additions for 
hardenability, the boron content will not normally exceed 0.0008 %. 
7.1.3 Except as allowed by 7.1.4 for primary heats, heat 
analyses shall conform to the heat analysis requirements of the 
applicable product specification for the applicable grade,· class, 
and type. 
7.1.4 Where vacuum-arc remelting or electroslag remelting 
is used, a remelted heat is defined as all ingots remelted from 
a single primary heat. If the heat analysis of the primary heat 
conforms to the heat analysis requirements of the applicable 
product specification for the applicable grade, class, and type, 
the heat analysis for the remelted heat shall be determined from 
one test sample taken from one remelted ingot, or the product 
of one remelted ingot, from the primary heat. If the heat 
analysis of the primary heat does not conform to the heat 
analysis requirements of the applicable product specification 
for the applicable grade, type, and class, the heat analysis for 
the remelted heat shall be determined from one test sample 
taken from each remelted ingot, or the product of each 
remelted ingot, from the primary heat. 
7.2 Product Analysis-For each heat, the purchaser shall 
have the option of analyzing representative samples taken from 
the finished structural product. Sampling for chemical analysis 
8 
and methods of analysis shall be in accordance with Test 
Methods, Practices, and Terminology A751. The product 
analyses so determined shall conform to the heat analysis 
requirements of the applicable product specification for the 
applicable grade, class, and type, subject to the permitted 
variations in product analysis given in Table A. If a range is 
specified, the determinations of any element in a heat shall not 
vary both above and below the specified range. Rimmed or 
capped steel is characterized by a lack of homogeneity in its 
composition, especially for the elements carbon, phosphorus, 
and sulfur. Therefore, the limitations for these elements shall 
not be applicable unless misapplication is clearly indicated. 
7 .3 Referee Analysis-For referee purposes, Test Methods, 
Practices, and Terminology A751 shall be used. 
7.4 Grade Substitution-Alloy steel grades that meet the 
chemical requirements of Table 1 of Specification A829/ 
A829M shall not be substituted for carbon steel grades. 
8. Metallurgical Structure 
8.1 Where austenitic grain size testing is required, such 
testing shall be in accordance with Test Methods E112 and at 
least 70 % of the grains in the area exaruined shall meet the 
specified grain size requirement. 
8.1.1 Discussion-Austenitic Grain Size-All requirements 
for austenitic grain size control in Section 8, Metallurgical 
Structure, refer to a size of austenite grains that form when and 
if the structural product is reheated to a temperature at or above 
the transformation temperature, Ac 3 , after the product has 
experienced the complete rolling operation and has cooled to 
ambient temperature. The requirements for austenitic grain size 
control in Section 8, including the results of the referenced 
testing methods, do not measure or control the prior austenitic 
grain size or the ferritic grain size of the structural product in 
the as-rolled condition. 
8.2 Coarse Austenitic Grain Size-Where coarse austenitic 
grain size is specified, one austenitic grain size test per heat 
shall be made and the austenitic grain size number so deter­
mined shall be in the range of 1 to 5 inclusive. 
8.3 Fine Austenitic Grain Size: 
8.3.1 Where fine austenitic grain size is specified, except as 
allowed in 8.3.2, one austenitic grain size test per heat shall be 
made and the austenitic grain size number so determined shall 
be 5 or higher. 
NoTE 4-Such austenitic grain size numbers may be achieved with 
lower contents of austenitic grain refining elements than 8.3.2 requires for 
austenitic grain size testing to be waived. 
8.3.2 Unless testing for fine austenitic grain size is specified 
in the purchase order, an austenitic grain size test need not be 
made for any heat that has, by heat analysis, one or more of the 
following: 
8.3.2.1 A total aluruinum content of 0.020 % or more. 
8.3.2.2 An acid soluble aluruinum content of 0.015 % or 
more. 
8.3.2.3 A content for an austenitic grain refining element 
that exceeds the minimum value agreed to by the purchaser as 
being sufficient for austenitic grain size testing to be waived, or 