ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-790/SA-790M (ASTM A790/A790M) 
13.3 Flattening Test-For pipe heat treated in a batch-type 
furnace, :flattening tests shall be made on 5 % of the pipe from 
each heat-treated lot. For pipe heat treated by the continuous 
process, or by direct quenching after hot forming, this test shall 
be made on a sufficient number of pipes to constitute 5 % of the 
lot, but in no case less than two lengths of pipe. 
13.3.1 For welded pipe, a transverse guided face bend test 
of the weld may be conducted instead of a :flattening test in 
accordance with the method outlined in the steel tubular 
product supplement of Test Methods and Definitions A370. For 
welded pipe with a specified wall thickness 2: 3/s in. [9.52 mm], 
two side bend tests may be made instead of the face bend test. 
The ductility of the weld shall be considered acceptable when 
there is no evidence of cracks in the weld or between the weld 
and the base metal after bending. Test specimens from 5 % of 
the lot shall be taken from the pipes or test plates of the same 
material as the pipe, the test plates being attached to the end of 
the cylinder and welded as a prolongation of the pipe longitu­
dinal seam. 
13.4 Hardness Test-Brinell or Rockwell hardness tests 
shall be made on specimens from two pipes from each lot (see 
13.2). 
14. Hydrostatic or Nondestructive Electric Test 
14.1 Each pipe shall be subjected to the nondestructive 
electric test or the hydrostatic test. The type of test to be used 
shall be at the option of the manufacturer, unless otherwise 
specified in the purchase order. 
14.2 The hydrostatic test shall be in accordance with Speci­
fication A999/A999M, except that the value for S to be used in 
the calculation of the hydrostatic test pressure shall be equal to 
50 % of the specified minimum yield strength of the pipe. 
14.3 Nondestructive Electric Test-Nondestructive electric 
tests shall be in accordance with Practices E213 or E309. 
14.3.1 As an alternative to the hydrostatic test, and when 
specified by the purchaser, each pipe shall be examined with a 
nondestructive test in accordance with Practices E213 or E309. 
Unless specifically called out by the purchaser, the selection of 
the nondestructive electric test will be at the option of the 
manufacturer. The range of pipe sizes that may be examined by 
each method shall be subject to the limitations in the scope of 
the respective practices. 
14.3.1.1 The following information is for the benefit of the 
user of this specification: 
14.3.1.2 The reference standards defined in 14.3.1.3 -
14.3 .1.5 are convenient standards for calibration of nondestruc­
tive testing equipment. The dimensions of these standards 
should not be construed as the minimum size imperfection 
detectable by such equipment. 
14.3.1.3 The ultrasonic testing (UT) can be performed to 
detect both longitudinally and circumferentially oriented de­
fects. It should be recognized that different techniques should 
be employed to detect differently oriented imperfections. The 
examination may not detect short, deep, defects. 
14.3.1.4 The eddy-current testing (ET) referenced in this 
specification (see Practice E426) has the capability of detecting 
significant discontinuities, especially the short abrupt type. 
14.3 .1.5 A purchaser interested in ascertaining the nature 
(type, size, location, and orientation) of discontinuities that can 
be detected in the specific application of these examinations 
should discuss this with the manufacturer of the tubular 
product. 
14.4 Time of Examination-Nondestructive testing for 
specification acceptance shall be performed after all mechani­
cal processing, heat treatments, and straightening operations. 
This requirement does not preclude additional testing at earlier 
stages in the processing. 
14.5 Surface Condition: 
14.5.1 All surfaces shall be free of scale, dirt, grease, paint, 
or other foreign material that could interfere with interpretation 
of test results. The methods used for cleaning and preparing the 
surfaces for examination shall not be detrimental to the base 
metal or the surface finish. 
14.5.2 Excessive surface roughness or deep scratches can 
produce signals that interfere with the test. 
14.6 Extent of Examination: 
14.6.1 The relative motion of the pipe and the transducer(s), 
coil(s), or sensor(s) shall be such that the entire pipe surface is 
scanned, except as in 14.6.2. 
14.6.2 The existence of end effects is recognized and the 
extent of such effects shall be determined by the manufacturer 
and, if requested, shall be reported to the purchaser. Other 
nondestructive tests may be applied to the end areas, subject to 
agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
14.7 Operator Qualifications-The test unit operator shall 
be certified in accordance with SNT-TC- lA, or an equivalent 
recognized and documented standard. 
14.8 Test Conditions: 
14.8.1 For eddy-current testing, the excitation coil fre­
quency shall be chosen to ensure adequate penetration yet 
provide good signal-to-noise ratio. 
14.8.2 The maximum eddy-current coil frequency used 
shall be as follows: 
On specified walls up to 0.050 in.-100 KHz max 
On specified walls up to 0.150 in.-50 KHz max 
On specified walls over 0.150 in.-10 KHz max 
14.8.3 Ultrasonic-For examination by the ultrasonic 
method, the minimum nominal transducer frequency shall be 
2.00 MHz and the maximum nominal transducer size shall be 
1.5 in. If the equipment contains a reject notice filter setting, 
this shall remain off during calibration and testing unless 
linearity can be demonstrated at that setting. 
14.9 Reference Standards-Reference standards of conve­
nient length shall be prepared from a length of pipe of the same 
grade, size (NPS, or outside diameter and schedule or wall 
thickness), surface finish and heat treatment condition as the 
pipe to be examined. 
14.9.1 For Ultrasonic Testing, the reference ID and OD 
notches shall be any one of the three common notch shapes 
shown in Practice E213, at the option of the manufacturer. The 
depth of each notch shall not exceed 12 ½ % of the specified 
nominal wall thickness of the pipe or 0.004 in., whichever is 
1299 