ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
time quenching, n-interrupted quenching in which the 
duration of holding in the quenching medium is controlled. 
transformation ranges, n-those ranges of temperature within 
which austenite forms during heating and transforms during 
cooling. 
DrscussroN-The two ranges are distinct, sometimes overlapping but 
never coinciding. The limiting temperatures of the ranges are depen­
dent upon the steel composition and the rate of change of temperature, 
particularly during cooling. 
transformation temperature, n-the temperature at which a 
change in phase occurs, with the limiting temperatures of the 
transformation ranges designated using the following sym­
bols: 
Acc 01 -the temperature at which the solution of cementite 
in austenite is completed during heating. 
Ac 1 -the temperature at which austenite begins to form 
during heating. 
Ac 3 -the temperature at which transformation of ferrite to 
austenite is completed dming heating. 
Ac 4 -the temperature at which austenite transforms to 
delta ferrite during heating. 
Ae 1 , Ae 3 , Aecm• Ae 4 -the temperatures of phase change at 
equilibrium. 
Arcn 1 -the temperature at which precipitation of cementite 
starts during cooling. 
Ar 1 -the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to ferrite or to ferrite plus cementite is completed during 
cooling. 
Ar 3 -the temperature at which austenite begins to trans­
form to ferrite during cooling. 
Ar 4 -the temperature at which delta ferrite transforms to 
austenite during cooling. 
Mr-the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to martensite is substantially completed during cooling. 
M 8 -the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to martensite starts during cooling. 
DrscussroN-All of the above changes, except the formation of 
martensite, occur at lower temperatures dming cooling than during 
heating, and are dependent upon the rate of change of temperature. 
unspecified element, n-in steel, an element not controlled to 
a specified minimum, maximum, or range, in accordance 
with the requirements of the applicable product specifica­
tion. 
wrought product, n-item of steel which has been subject to 
deformation by rolling, drawing, forging, or some other 
method, for example, a bar, plate, strip, tube, or wire. 
1387 
DrscussroN-The extent of deformation needed to transform an 
as-cast material to one that exhibits the microstructure and properties 
expected for wrought products is impractical to define because it may 
vary among different deformation practices and product application. 