SA-336/SA-336M (ASTM A336/A336M) ASME BPVCLIL.A-2025
8.2.1.1 Except as provided for liquid quenched and tem- and tempered forgings for which tests are required at both ends —

pered forgings in 8.2.1.3, the longitudinal axis of the specimen by 8.3.2.3 and 8.3.2.4, separately forged test blocks are not ,
shall be located midway between the parallel surfaces of the allowed.
test extension if added to the periphery of disks or midway Norte 1—In using separately forged test blocks, attention is drawn to the
between the center and surface of solid forgings. For hollow effect of mass differences between the production forgings and the test
forgings, or those heat-treated after boring, the specimen shall __ blocks. This can be particularly significant when forgings are either
be located at midwall. For the special case of forgings that are | normalized and tempered or quenched and tempered.
heat-treated solid, but are subsequently bored, the tension test 8.3 Number and Location of Tests—The number and loca-
specimen may be taken at the location of the minimum inside _tion of tests are based on forging length, weight, and heat
diameter after boring instead of the mid-radius position. When _ treatment and shall be as prescribed below. The length and
separately forged test blocks are employed, as defined in 8.2.3, weight to be used for this purpose shall be the length and
the tension test specimens shall be taken from a location that —_ weight at the time of heat treatment. ,
represents the midwall of the heaviest section of the production 8.3.1 Annealed or Normalized and Tempered Forgings:

_ forgings. When specimens are required from opposite ends, 8.3.1.1 For forgings weighing 5000 Ib [2250 kg] or less at
they shall be taken from the diagonal corners of an axial plane. _the time of heat treatment, one tension test shall be taken from a
Alternatively, and when specified by the purchaser, the speci- one forging per heat, per heat treatment charge. When heat
mens shall be taken in accordance with Supplementary Re- treatment is performed in continuous type furnaces with
quirement S3. suitable temperature controls and equipped with recording

8.2.1.2 For liquid quenched and tempered forgings, the test | pyrometers so that complete heat treatment records are
specimens shall have their longitudinal axis at least ¥% T of the available, a tempering charge may be considered as any
maximum heat-treated thickness from any surface and with the continuous run not exceeding an 8 h period.
mid-length of the specimens at least one T from any second 8.3.1.2 For forgings and forged bars weighing over 5000 Ib
surface. This is normally referred to as 4 T x T, where T is the [2250 kg] at the time of heat treatment, one tension test shall be
maximum heat-treated thickness. A thermal buffer may be used __ taken from each forging.
to adhere to the above condition. 8.3.2 Quenched and Tempered Forgings:

8.2.1.3 For liquid quenched and tempered forgings with 8.3.2.1 For quenched and tempered forgings weighing
prior purchaser approval, test specimens may be taken at a 5000 Ib [2250 kg] or less at the time of heat treatment, but not
depth (t) corresponding to the distance from the area of exceeding 12 ft [3.7 m] in length, one tension test shall be
significant stress to the nearest heat-treated surface and at least taken from one forging per heat, per heat treatment charge.
twice this distance (2 f) from any second surface. However, the | When heat treatment is performed in continuous type furnaces
test depth shall not be nearer to one heat-treated surface than | With suitable temperature controls and equipped with recording
34, in. [19 mm] and to the second treated surface than 142 in. | pyrometers so that complete heat treatment records are
[38 mm]. This method of test specimen location normally available, a tempering charge may be considered as any
(known as tx2t testing) applies to thick and complex pressure continuous run not exceeding an 8 h period.
vessel components where the testing in accordance with 8.2.1.2 8.3.2.2 For quenched and tempered forgings and forged bars
is not practical. Sketches showing the proposed exact test | weighing over 5000 Ib to 10 000 lb [2250 kg to 4500 kg] at the
locations shall be approved by the purchaser when this method time of heat treatment, but not exceeding 12 ft [3.7 m] in
is used. length, one tension test shall be taken from each forging.

, 8.2.2 Except as specified in this specification, tests for 8.3.2.3 Quenched and tempered forgings that exceed 12 ft
acceptance shall be made after heat treatment has been [3.7 m] in length shall be tension tested at both ends of the
completed in accordance with Section 6. When the ends of the forging under test. .
cylindrical forgings are closed in by reforging, the cylindrical 8.3.2.4 For quenched and tempered forgings and forged bars
forgings may be normalized and tempered or annealed and Weighing more than 10 000 Ib [4500 kg] at the time of heat
tested before reforging. After reforging, the entire forging shall  ‘eatment, two tension test specimens shall be taken from each
be reheat-treated in the same manner and at the same tempera- forging. These shall be offset 180° from each other except that -
ture range as employed when the forging was heat-treated if the length of the forging, excluding test prolongations,
before certification testing. exceeds 12 ft [3.7 m], then one specimen shall be taken from

8.2.3 When mutually agreed upon between the manufac- each end of the forging.
turer and the purchaser, test specimens may be machined from 8.4 Notch Toughness Requirements—Grades F3V, F3VCb,
a specially forged block suitably worked and heat-treated with F22V, and F6NM:
the production forgings. Such a special block shall be obtained 8.4.1 Impact test specimens shall be Charpy V-notch, as
from an ingot, slab, or billet from the same heat used to make = shown in Test Methods and Definitions A370. The usage of
the forgings it represents. This block shall receive essentially | subsize specimens due to material limitations must have prior
the same type of hot-working and forging reduction as the — purchaser approval.
production forgings; however, a longitudinally forged bar with 8.4.2 The Charpy V-notch test specimens shall be obtained
dimensions not less than T x T x 3T may be used to represent as required for tension tests in 8.1 and 8.3. One set of three
a ring forging. The dimension 7 shall be representative of the | Charpy V-notch specimens shall be taken from each tensile
heaviest effective cross section of the forging. For quenched specimen location. a
522 |
