SA-232/SA-232M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
9.2 Oil Tempered- The wire shall be uniform in quality 
and temper and shall not be wavy or crooked. 
9.3 Each coil shall be one continuous length of wire 
properly coiled and firmly tied. 
9.4 No welds are permitted in the finished product and 
any welds made during processing must be removed. 
10. Retests 
10.1 If any test specimen exhibits obvious defects it 
may be discarded and another specimen substituted. 
11. Inspection 
11.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract or pur­
chase order, the manufacturer is responsible for the per­
formance of all inspection and test requirements specified 
in this specification. Except as otherwise specified in the 
contract or purchase order, the manufacturer may use his 
own or any other suitable facilities for the performance of 
the inspection and test requirements unless disapproved by 
the purchaser at the time the order is placed. The purchaser 
shall have the right to perform any of the inspections and 
tests set forth in this specification when such inspections 
and tests are deemed necessary to assure that the material 
conforms to prescribed requirements. 
12. Rejection and Rehearing 
12.1 Unless otherwise specified, any rejection based 
on tests made in accordance with these specifications shall 
be reported to the manufacturer as soon as possible so that 
an investigation may be initiated. 
12.2 The material must be adequately protected and 
correctly identified in order that the manufacturer may 
make a proper investigation. 
324 
13. Certification 
13.1 When specified in the purchase order or contract, 
a manufacturer's or supplier's certification shall be fur­
nished to the purchaser that the material was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with this spec­
ification and has been found to meet the requirements. 
When specified in the purchase order or contract, a report 
of the test results shall be furnished. 
13.2 The certification shall include the specification 
number, year date of issue, and revision letter, if any. 
14. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
14.1 The coil mass, dimensions, and the method of 
packaging shall be agreed upon between the manufacturer 
and purchaser. 
14.2 The size of the wire, purchaser's order number, 
ASTM specification number, heat number, and name or 
mark of the manufacturer shall be marked on a tag securely 
attached to each coil of wire. 
14.3 Unless otherwise specified in the purchaser's 
order, packaging, marking, and loading for shipments shall 
be in accordance with those procedures recommended by 
Practice A 700. 
14.4 For Government Procurement-Packaging, pack­
ing, and marking of material for military procurement shall 
be in accordance with the requirements of MIL-STD-163, 
Level A, Level C, or commercial as specified in the contract 
or purchase order. Marking for shipment of material for 
civil agencies shall be in accordance with Fed. Std. No. 123. 