=== Page 1438 ===

SA-905 (ASTM A905) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
a Designation: A905-19 
•u II 
INTERNATIONAL 
Standard Specification for 
Steel Wire, Pressure Vessel Winding 1 
This standard is issued under the fixed designation A905; the number immediately following the designation indicates the year of 
original adoption or, in the case of revision, th.e year of last revision. A number in parentheses indicates the year of last reapproval. A 
superscript epsilon (e) indicates an editorial change since the last revision or reapproval. 
1. Scope* 
1.1 This specification covers requirements for a high 
strength drawn and cold rolled steel wire in two strength 
classes, with rectangular cross section, and round mill edge. 
This wire is intended for prestressed vessel and press frame 
windings. 
1.2 The values stated in either inch-pound units or SI 
(metric) units are to be regarded separately as standards. 
Within the text and tables, the SI units are shown in parenthe­
ses. The values stated in each system are not exact equivalents. 
Therefore, each system must be used independent of the other. 
Combining values from the two systems may result in noncon­
formance with the specification. 
1.3 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards:2 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A510/A510M Specification for General Requirements for 
Wire Rods and Coarse Round Wire, Carbon Steel, and 
Alloy Steel 
A 700 Guide for Packaging, Marking, and Loading Methods 
for Steel Products for Shipment 
A751 Test Methods, Practices, and Terminology for Chemi­
cal Analysis of Steel Products 
E309 Practice for Eddy Current Examination of Steel Tubu­
lar Products Using Magnetic Saturation 
1 This specification is under the jurisdiction of ASTM Committee AO! on Steel, 
Stainless Steel and Related Alloys and is the direct responsibility of Subcommittee 
AOl.03 on Steel Rod and Wire. 
Current edition approved Sept. !, 2019. Published September 2019. Originally 
approved in 1991. Last previous edition approved in 2017 as A905 - 04 (2017). 
DOI: 10.1520/A0905-19. 
2 For referenced ASTM standards, visit the ASTM website, www.astm.org, or 
contact ASTM Customer Service at service@astm.org. For Annual Book of ASTM 
Standards volume information, refer to the standard's Document Summary page on 
the ASTM website. 
2.2 Federal Standard: 3 
Fed. Std. No. 123 Marking for Shipment (Civil Agencies) 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 It shall be the responsibility of the purchaser to specify 
all requirements that are necessary for material under this 
specification. Such requirements may include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
3.1.1 Quantity (mass), 
3.1.2 Name of material, 
3.1.3 Dimensions (see Section 7), 
3.1.4 Finish (see Section 8), 
3.1.5 Packaging (see Section 11), 
3.1.6 Cast or heat analysis report (see Section 5), 
3.1.7 Number of certification or test reports required (see 
Section 10), 
3.1.8 ASTM designation and year of issue, and 
3.1.9 Supplementary requirements, if any. 
4. Material and Manufacture 
4.1 The steel shall be produced by any of the following 
primary processes: (1) basic oxygen, and (2) electric furnace or 
vacuum induction (VIM). The primary melting may incorpo­
rate separate degassing or refining and may be followed by 
secondary melting by the electrode slag process (ESR) or the 
vacuum arc remelting process (VAR). 
4.1.1 The steel may be ingot cast or continuously cast. 
4.2 The finished wire shall be free from detrimental pipe 
and undue segregation. 
4.3 The wire shall be cold drawn or cold rolled, or both, to 
produce the desired mechanical properties and dimensions 
after subjecting it to the patenting treatment. 
4.4 The width to thickness ratio of the wire cross section 
shall not exceed 8. 
5. Chemical Composition 
5 .1 The steel shall conform to the requirements for chemical 
composition prescribed in Table 1. 
3 Available from Standardization Documents Order Desk, DODSSP, Bldg. 4, 
Section D, 700 Robbins Ave., Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, https:// 
quicksearch.dla.mil. 
* A Summary of Changes section appears at the end of this standard 
1376

=== Page 1439 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-905 (ASTM A905) 
TABLE 1 Chemical Requirements 
Element 
Carbon 
Manganese 
Phosphorus 
Sulphur, max 
Silicon 
Composition % 
0.80-0.95 
0.30-0.60 
0.025 
0.020 
0.10-0.30 
5.2 Heat Analysis-Each heat of steel shall be analyzed to 
determine the percentage of elements prescribed in Table 1. 
This analysis shall be made from a test specimen preferably 
taken during the pouring of the heat. When requested, this shall 
be reported to the purchaser and shall conform to the require­
ments of Table 1. 
5.3 Product Analysis-An analysis may be made by the 
purchaser from finished wire representing each heat of steel. 
The chemical composition thus determined, as to elements 
required or restricted, shall conform to the product analysis 
requirements specified in Table 10 of Specification A510/ 
A510M. 
5.4 For referee purposes, Test Methods, Practices, and 
Terminology A751 shall be used. 
6. Mechanical Requirements 
6.1 Tension Test. 
6.1.1 Requirements-The material as represented by tension 
test specimens shall conform to the requirements prescribed in 
Table 2. 
6.1.2 Number of Tests-One test specimen shall be taken 
from each end of every coil. 
6.1.3 Test Method-The tension test shall be made in 
accordance with Test Methods and Definitions A370, except 
that the length L for evaluation of the elongation shall be 
calculated from the following formula: 
L = 11.3-y'w.r 
where 
W = width of the wire, and 
T = thickness of the wire. 
The length L shall be used to calculate the permanent 
elongation. The distance between the gage marks shall be 
measured to the nearest 0.004 in. (0.1 mm). Determine tensile 
properties and permanent elongation as described in Test 
Methods and Definitions A370. 
6.1.4 Retest-If any test specimen exhibits obvious 
discontinuity, it may be discarded and another specimen 
substituted. 
7. Dimensions and Permissible Variations 
7 .1 The permissible variations in dimensions of the wire 
shall be as specified in Table 3, unless otherwise specified in 
the ordering information. 
8. Workmanship, Finish, and Appearance 
8.1 The wire shall be free of detrimental surface 
imperfections, tangles and sharp kinks. 
8.2 The wire shall conform to the dimensions, tolerances, 
and finish specified on the order or drawing. Welds are not 
permitted. 
8.3 When required, non-destructive examination shall be 
carried out in accordance with Supplementary Requirement S 1. 
8.4 The wire as received shall be smooth and substantially 
free from rust. No detrimental die marks or scratches may be 
present. 
9. Inspection 
9.1 The manufacturer shall afford the purchaser's inspector 
all reasonable facilities to satisfy him that the material is being 
produced and furnished in accordance with this specification. 
All tests and inspections may be made at the place of 
manufacture prior to shipment and shall be so conducted as to 
not interfere unnecessarily with the operation of the work. 
10. Certification and Reports 
10.1 The manufacturer shall furnish the required number, 
from the purchase order, of test reports to the purchaser. The 
following items shall be reported. 
10.l.1 Heat number, 
10.1.2 Heat chemical analysis, 
10.1.3 Result of test of tensile properties, 
10.1.4 Reports of non-destructive tests, if required (S.l), 
and 
10.1.5 ASTM specification number, year of issue and revi­
sion letter, if any. 
TABLE 2 Tensile Requirements 
Tensile strength min. ksl Yield strength min, ksi Elongation 
ThicknessA (MPa) (MPa) min % 
in. (mm) -c=1~as-s""'1~--=-c=1-as-s""2--c=1a_s_s...,.1=-'-'-:c"'"1a_s_s -=-2------=c""1a-ss""7""1 
0.020 296 268 260 232 4.0 
(051) (2045) (1850) (1795) (1600) 
0.030 290 262 255 226 4.0 
(0.76) (2000) (1810) (1760) (1560) 
0.040 285 256 250 221 4;0 
(1.02) (1965) (1770) (1725) (1525) 
0.051 280 250 243 214 4.0 
(1.30) (1930) (1725) (1680) (1480) 
0.059 275 246 239 210 4.0 
(1.50) (1900) (1700) (1650) (1450) 
A Tensile requirement values for intermediate thickness may be interpolated. 
1377

=== Page 1440 ===

SA-905 (ASTM A905) ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
TABLE 3 Permissible Variations In Dimensions 
Thickness in. (mm) 
0.02 to 0.03 (0.51 to 0.76), incl 
Over 0.03 to 0.04 (0.76 to 1.02), incl 
Over 0.04 to 0.06 (1.02 to 1.52), incl 
Width in. (mm) 
0.08 to 0.16 (2.03 to 4.06), incl 
Over 0.16 to 0.24 (4.06 to 6.10), incl 
Over 0.24 to 0.48 (6.1 O to 12.2), incl 
Permissible Variation, ±in. (mm) 
0.0004 (0.01) 
0.0008 (0.02) 
0.0012 (0.03) 
Permissible Variation, ±in. (mm) 
0.0016 (0.04) 
0.0024 (0.06) 
0.0040 (0.10) 
11. Packaging, Marking, and Loading for Shipment 
11.1 The coil, reel or spool mass, dimensions, and the 
method of packaging shall be agreed upon between the 
manufacturer and purchaser. 
11.2 The size of the wire, purchaser's order number, ASTM 
specification number, and name or mark of the manufacturer 
shall be marked on a tag securely attached to each coil, reel, or 
spool of wire. 
11.3 Unless otherwise specified in the purchaser's order, 
packaging, marking, and loading for shipments shall be in 
accordance with those procedures recommended by Practices 
A700. 
11.4 For Government Procurement-Marking for shipment 
of material for civil agencies shall be in accordance with Fed. 
Std. No. 123. 
12. Keywords 
12.1 pressure vessel; winding; wire 
SUPPLEMENTARY·REQUIREMENTS 
Supplementary requirements to this specification shall only apply to a product specification when 
specified by the purchaser in his inquiry, contract or order. Details of the supplementary requirements 
shall be agreed upon in writing between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
Sl. Surface Examination 
S 1.1 The surface of the wire shall be examined by the eddy 
current method in accordance with Practice E309. The accep­
tance criteria shall be mutually agreed upon by the purchaser 
and manufacturer. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Committee A0l has identified the location of selected changes to this standard since the last issue 
(A905 - 04 (2017)) that may impact the use of this standard. (Approved Sept. 1, 2019.) 
(]) Removed Test Methods E30, MIL-STD-163, and AIAG 
B-5 from Referenced Documents. 
(2) Added Test Methods A751 to Referenced Documents. 
( 3) Combined Specifications A510 and A510M into A510/ 
A510M in Referenced Documents. Updated references 
throughout. 
(4) Revised subsections 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 11.4, and footnote 3. 
(5) Removed subsection 11.5. 
ASTM International takes no position respecting the validity of any patent rights asserted in connection with any item mentioned 
in this standard. Users of this standard are expressly advised that determination of the validity of any such patent rights, and the risk 
of infringement of such rights, are entirely their own responsibility. 
This standard is subject to revision at any time by the responsible technical committee and must be reviewed eve,y five years and 
if not revised, either reapproved or withdrawn. Your comments are invited either for revision of this standard or for additional standards 
and should be addressed to ASTM International Headquarters. Your comments will receive careful consideration at a meeting of the 
responsible technical committee, which you may attend. If you feel that your comments have not received a fair hearing you should 
make your views known to the ASTM Committee on Standards, at the address shown below. 
This standard is copyrighted by ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, 
United States. Individual reprints (single or multiple copies) of this standard may be obtained by contacting ASTM at the above 
address or at 610-832-9585 (phone), 610-832-9555 (fax), or service@astm.org (e-mail); or through the ASTM website 
(www.astm.org). Permission rights to photocopy the standard may also be secured from the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, Tel: (978) 646-2600; httpJ/www.copyright.com/ 
1378

=== Page 1441 ===

ASME BPVC.ILA-2025, SA-941

TERMINOLOGY RELATING TO STEEL, STAINLESS
STEEL, RELATED ALLOYS, AND FERROALLOYS

Ox aoa Ally

(Identical with ASTM Specification A941-22a,)

1379

=== Page 1442 ===

SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Terminology Relating to 
Steel, Stainless Steel, Related Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
1. Scope 
1.1 This standard is a compilation of definitions of terms 
related to steel, stainless steel, related alloys, and ferroalloys. 
1.2 When a term is used in an ASTM document for which 
Committee A0l is responsible, it is included herein only when 
judged, after review by Subcommittee A0l.92, to be a gener­
ally usable term. 
1.3 Some definitions include a discussion section, which is 
a mandatory part of the definition and contains additional 
information that is relevant to the meaning of the defined term. 
1.4 Definitions of terms specific to a particular standard will 
appear in that standard and will supersede any definitions of 
identical terms in this standard. 
1.5 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
E112 Test Methods for Determining Average Grain Size 
3. Terminology 
3.1 Definitions of Terms Specific to This Standard: 
Accm• Ac 1, Ac 3, Ac,r-See transformation temperature. 
Aecm, Ae 1 , Ae 3 , Ae,r-See transformation temperature. 
age hardening, n-hardening by aging, usually after rapid 
cooling or cold working. 
age hardening, n-see precipitation hardening. 
aging, n-a change in the properties of certain steels that 
occurs at ambient or moderately elevated temperatures after 
hot working or a heat treatment ( quench aging, natural 
aging, or artificial aging) or after a cold-working operation 
(strain aging). 
DiscussION-The change in properties is often, but not always, due to 
precipitation hardening, but never involves a change in the chemical 
composition of the steel. 
alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a stainless steel, that 
conforms to a specification that requires one or more of the 
following elements, by mass percent, to have a minimum 
content equal to or greater than: 0.30 for aluminum; 0.0008 
for boron; 0.30 for chromium; 0.30 for cobalt; 0.40 for 
copper; 0.40 for lead; 1.65 for manganese; 0.08 for molyb­
denum; 0.30 for nickel; 0.06 for niobium (columbium); 0.60 
for silicon; 0.05 for titanium; 0.30 for tungsten (wolfram); 
0.10 for vanadium; 0.05 for zirconium; or 0.10 for any other 
alloying element, except sulphur, phosphorus, carbon, and 
nitrogen. 
annealing, n-a generic term covering any of several heat 
treatments. 
DiscusSION-This treatment is used for purposes such as reducing 
hardness, improving machinability, facilitating cold working, produc­
ing a desired microstructure, or obtaining desired mechanical, physical, 
or other properties. Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: box annealing, bright annealing, full 
annealing, intermediate annealing, isothermal annealing, process 
annealing, spheroidizing, and subcritical annealing. The term 
"annealing," without qualification, implies full annealing. Any pro­
cess of annealing will usually reduce stresses; however, if the 
treatment is applied for the sole purpose of stress reduction, it should be 
designated stress relieving. 
Arcm, Ar 1 , Ar 3 , Ar,r-See transformation temperature. 
artificial aging, n-aging above room temperature. 
atmospheric corrosion resistance, n-the ability to resist 
degradation or alteration of material through chemical reac­
tion with the surrounding atmosphere. 
D1scussioN-This term generally pertains to carbon steel, low alloy 
steel, or micro-alloyed steel. 
austempering, n-heat treatment involving quenching a 
steel object from a temperature above the transformation 
range in a medium maintained at a temperature above the 
martensite range sufficiently fast to avoid the formation of 
1380

=== Page 1443 ===

_,,.-----...___ 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
high temperature transformation products, and then holding 
it at that temperature until transformation is complete. 
austenitizing, n-forming austenite by heating a steel object 
above the transformation range. 
baking, n-heating to a low temperature in order to remove 
gases. 
batch furnace, n-a heating device within which steel objects 
are held stationary or oscillated during the thermal process­
ing cycle. 
blank carburizing, n-simulating the carburizing operation 
without introducing carbon. 
DiscussION-This is usually accomplished by using an inert material 
in place of the carburizing agent, or by applying a suitable protective 
coating on the object being heat treated. 
blank nitriding, n-simulating the nitriding operation without 
introducing nitrogen. 
DiscussION-This is usually accomplished by using an inert material 
in place of the nitriding agent, or by applying a suitable protective 
coating on the object being heat treated. 
bluing, n-subjecting the scale-free surface of a steel object to 
the action of air, steam, or other agents at a suitable 
temperature, thereby forming a thin blue film of oxide and 
improving the object's appearance and corrosion resistance. 
DiscussION-This term is ordinarily applied to sheet, strip, or 
finished parts. It is used also to denote the heating of springs after 
fabrication in order to improve their properties. 
box annealing, n-annealing in a sealed container under 
conditions that minimize oxidation. 
DiscussION-The charge is usually heated slowly to a temperature 
below the transformation range, but sometimes above or within it, 
and is then cooled slowly. 
bright annealing, n-annealing in a protective medium to 
prevent discoloration of the bright surface. 
capped steel, n-a rimmed steel in which, during ingot 
solidification, the rimming action was limited by mechanical 
or chemical means. 
carbon potential, n-the carbon content at the surface of a 
specimen of pure iron in equilibrium with the carburizing 
medium considered, and under the conditions specified. 
carbon restoration, n-replacing the carbon lost from the 
surface layer in previous processing by carburizing this layer 
to substantially the original carbon level. 
carbon steel, n-a steel that conforms to a specification that 
prescribes a maximum limit, by heat analysis in mass 
percent, of not more than: 2.00 for carbon and 1.65 for 
manganese, but does not prescribe a minimum limit for 
chromium, cobalt, molybdenum, nickel, niobium 
(columbium), tungsten (wolfram), vanadium, or zirconium. 
DiscussION-Except as required above, it is permissible for carbon 
steel specifications to prescribe limits (minimum or maximum, or both) 
for each specified alloying element, subject to the following restrictions 
for the heat analysis limits in mass percent: 
(a) for wrought carbon steel products, the specified maximum limit is 
not to exceed: 0.10 for aluminum, 0.60 for silicon, and 0.050 for 
titanium; 
(b) for carbon steel castings, the specified maximum limit is not to 
exceed: 0.10 for aluminum, 1.00 for silicon, and 0.050 for titanium. 
( c) for carbon steels that are required to be rephosphorized, the 
specified minimum limit for phosphorus is not to be less than 0.040; 
( d) for carbon steels that are required to be resulfurized, the specified 
minimum limit for sulfur is not to be less than 0.060; 
( e) for carbon steels that are not required to be rephosphorized or 
resulfurized, the specified maximum limit is not to exceed: 0.60 for 
copper, 0.050 for phosphorus, and 0.060 for sulfur; and 
(f) for carbon steels that are required to contain boron, copper, or lead, 
the specified minimum limit is not to exceed: 0.0005 for boron, 0.35 for 
copper, and 0.25 for lead. 
carbonitriding, n-case hardening in which a suitable steel 
object is heated above Ac 1 in a gaseous atmosphere of such 
composition as to cause simultaneous absorption of carbon 
and nitrogen by the surface and, by diffusion, to create a 
concentration gradient. 
carburizing, n-a process in which an austenitized steel object 
is brought into contact with a carbonaceous environment of 
sufficient carbon potential to cause absorption of carbon at 
the surface and, by diffusion, to create a concentration 
gradient. 
case, n-in case hardening, the outer portion that has been 
made harder than the core as a result of altered composition 
or microstructure, or both, from treatments such as 
carburizing, nitriding, and induction hardening. 
case hardening, n-a generic term covering any of several 
processes applicable to steel that change the chemical 
composition or microstructure, or both, of the surface layer. 
DiscussION-The processes commonly used are: carburizing and 
quench hardening; nitriding; and carbonitriding. It is preferred that 
the applicable specific process name be used. 
cast analysis-,-Deprecated term. Use the preferred term heat 
analysis. 
cementation, n-the introduction of one or more elements into 
the outer portion of a steel object by means of diffusion at 
high temperature. 
certificate of compliance, n-in manufactured products, a 
document that states that the product was manufactured, 
sampled, tested, and inspected in accordance with the 
requirements of the specification (including year of issue) 
and any other requirements specified in the purchase order or 
contract, and has been found to meet such requirements. 
DiscussION-A single document, containing test report information 
and certificate of compliance information, may be used. 
certifying organization, n-in product specifications, the 
entity responsible for the conformance and certification of 
the product to the specification requirements. 
check analysis-Deprecated term. Use the preferred term 
product analysis. 
coarse grain practice, n-a steelmaking practice for other 
than stainless steel that is intended to produce a killed steel 
in which aluminum, niobium (columbium), titanium, and 
vanadium are residual elements. 
1381

=== Page 1444 ===

SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
cold working, n-mechanical deformation of a metal at 
temperatures below its recrystallization temperature. 
cold treatment, n-exposing a steel object to temperatures 
below room temperature for the purpose of obtaining desired 
conditions or properties, such as dimensional or structural 
stability. 
conditioning heat treatment, n-a preliminary heat treat­
ment used to prepare a steel object for a desired reaction to 
a subsequent heat treatment. 
continuous-conveyance furnace, n-a heating device through 
which steel objects are intentionally moved at a constant rate 
during the thermal processing cycle. 
controlled cooling, n-cooling a steel object from an elevated 
temperature in a predetermined manner to avoid hardening, 
cracking, or intema1 damage, or to produce a desired 
microstructure or mechanical properties. 
controlling cross section thickness (Tc), n-diameter of the 
largest theoretical sphere that can be inscribed within the 
volume of the component. 
Drscuss10N-The controlling cross section thickness (Tc) is used to 
determine the size of prolongations, test blocks, or representative test 
pieces. It is calculated based on the dimensions of the component at the 
time of heat treatment. Where components are heat treated with internal 
diameters the calculation is made based on the wall thickness. 
core, n-in case hardening, the interior portion of unaltered 
composition or microstructure, or both, of a case hardened 
steel object. 
core, n-in clad products, the central portion of a multilayer 
composite metallic material. 
critical cooling rate, n-the slowest rate of continuous cooling 
at which austenite can be cooled from above the transfor­
mation range to prevent its transformation above M •. 
cycle annealing, n-annealing employing a predetermined 
and closely controlled time-temperature cycle to produce 
specific properties or a specific microstructure. 
decarburization, n-the loss of carbon from the surface of a 
steel object as a result of its being heated in a medium that 
reacts with the carbon. 
defect, n-an imperfection of sufficient magnitude to warrant 
rejection based on the specified requirements. 
differential heating, n-heating that intentionally produces a 
temperature gradient within a steel object such that, after 
cooling, a desired stress distribution or variation in proper­
ties is present within the object. 
diffusion coating, n-any process whereby a base metal is 
either coated with another metal and heated to a sufficient 
temperature in a suitable environment, or exposed to a 
gaseous or liquid medium containing the other metal, 
thereby causing diffusion of the coating or other metal into 
the base metal, with a resultant change in the composition 
and properties of its surface. 
direct quenching, n-in thermochemical processing, quench­
ing immediately following the thermochemical treatment. 
direct quenching, n-in thermomechanical processing, 
quenching immediately following the final hot deformation. 
document, n-a written, printed, or electronic record that 
provides information, evidence, or official statements. 
double aging, n-employment of two different aging 
treatments, in sequence, to control the type of precipitate 
formed from a supersaturated alloy matrix in order to obtain 
the desired properties. 
Drscuss10N-The first aging treatment, sometimes referred to as 
intermediate or stabilizing, is usually carried out at a higher tempera­
ture than the second. 
double tempering, n-a treatment in which a quench­
hardened steel object is given two complete tempering 
cycles at substantially the same temperature for the purpose 
of ensuring completion of the tempering reaction and pro­
moting stability of the resultant microstructure. 
electronic data interchange, n-the computer to computer 
exchange of business information in a standardized format. 
ellipsis, n-in a tabular entry, three periods ( ... ) that indicate 
that there is no requirement. 
ferritizing anneal, n-a heat treatment that produces a 
predominantly ferritic matrix in a steel object. 
ferroalloy, n-an alloy of iron and one or more other metals, 
for use as an addition to the molten metal during the 
manufacture of steels, nickel alloys, or cobalt alloys. 
ferrous material, n-metals and alloys that contain iron as the 
principal component. 
D1scussmN-The iron content is not always stated in the specification 
and is not always determined by chemical analysis. The iron content 
may be taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, the mean value for 
iron, whether specified or calculated, is compared on an individual 
basis to the mean values permitted by the specification for each of the 
other elements having a specified range or a specified maximum. If an 
element other than iron is not specified, but is listed as remainder or 
balance, then, for conformance purposes the mean value for iron is 
compared to the calculated value for that other element. 
fine grain practice, n-a steelmaking practice for other than 
stainless steel that is intended to produce a killed steel that 
is capable of meeting the requirements specified for fine 
austenitic grain size when and if the as-rolled or as-forged 
product is reheated to a temperature at or above the 
transformation temperature, Ac 3 . 
D1scuss10N-When stated as a requirement, fine grain practice 
normally involves the addition of one or more austenitic grain refining 
elements in amounts that have been established by the steel producer as 
being sufficient. Austenitic grain refining elements include, but are not 
limited to, aluminum, niobium (columbium), titanium, and vanadium. 
A fine grain practice requirement ( 1) does not specify a minimum 
austenitic grain refining element addition; (2) does not require prior 
austenite grain size testing or measurement, or both; ( 3) if tested, does 
not require meeting any prior austenite grain size requirement; and ( 4) 
does not apply to, nor in any way control, the p1ior austenite grain size 
1382

=== Page 1445 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
or the ferrite grain size of the steel in the as-rolled or as-forged 
condition. The prior austenitic grain size and the fen-itic grain size of 
as-rolled or as-forged steel products are controlled by the manufactur­
ing process and may be assisted by suitable chemistry. The appropriate 
manufacturing process controls needed to meet the mechanical property 
requirements of the specification in the asrolled or as-forged condition 
are neither defined nor implied by the inclusion of a fine grain practice 
requirement. 
flame annealing, n-annealing in which the heat is applied 
directly by a flame. 
flame hardening, n-a process in which only the surface layer 
of a suitable steel object is heated by flame to above Ac 3 or 
Accm• and then the object is quenched. 
fog quenching, n-quenching in a mist. 
full annealing, n-annealing a steel object by austenitizing it 
and then cooling it slowly through the transformation 
range. 
D1scuss10N-The austenitizing temperature is usually above Ac 3 for 
hypoeutectoid steels and between Ac 1 and Accm for hypereutectoid 
steels. 
grain growth, n-an increase in the grain size of a steel object, 
usually as a result of exposure to elevated temperatures. 
grain size, n-the dimensions of tl1e grains or crystals in a 
polycrystalline metal, exclusive of twinned regions and 
subgrains when present. 
D1scuss10N-Grain size is usually estimated or measured on the 
cross section of ,m aggregate of grains, and designated by an ASTM 
grain size number. (See Test Methods Ell2.) 
graphitization annealing, n-annealing a steel object in such 
a way that some or all of the carbon is precipitated as 
graphite. 
hardenability, n-the property that determines the depth and 
distribution of hardness induced by quenching a steel 
object. 
hardening, n-increasing the hardness by suitable treatment, 
usually involving heating and cooling. 
D1scuss10N-Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: age hardening, case hardening, flame 
hardening, induction hardening, precipitation hardening, and 
quench hardening. 
heat, -n-a generic term denoting a specific lot of steel, based 
upon steelmaking and casting considerations. 
D1scussmN-Where it is necessary to be more definitive, the follow­
ing more specific terms are used: primary heat, multiple heat, and 
remelted heat. In product specifications, the term heat generally is 
used, without qualification, to mean the primary, multiple, or re­
melted heat, whichever is applicable. 
heat analysis, n-the chemical analysis determined by tl1e 
steel producer as being representative of a specific heat of 
steel. 
D1scuss10N-Where the analysis reported by the steel producer is not 
sufficiently complete for conformance with the heat analysis require­
ments of the applicable product specification to be fully assessed, the 
manufacturer may complete the assessment of conformance with such 
heat analysis requirements by using a product analysis for the specified 
elements that were not reported by the steel producer, provided that 
product analysis tolerances are not applied and the heat analysis is not 
altered. 
heat number, n-the alpha, numeric, or alphanumeric desig­
nator used to identify a specific heat of steel. 
heat treatment, n-heating and cooling a steel object in such 
a way as to obtain desired conditions or properties. 
D1scuss10N-Heating for the sole purpose of hot working is excluded 
from the meaning of this definition. 
high-strength low-alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a carbon 
steel or an interstitial-free steel, that conforms to a speci­
fication that requires the minimum content for each specified 
alloying element to be lower tlmn the applicable limit in the 
definition for alloy steel, and the yield point or yield strength 
of the product to be at least 36 ksi or 250 MPa. 
homogeneous carburizing, n-a process that converts a low­
carbon steel to one of substantially uniform and higher 
carbon content throughout the section, so that a specific 
response to hardening may be obtained. 
homogenizing, n-holding a steel object at high temperature to 
eliminate or decrease chemical segregation by diffusion. 
hot-cold working, n-the mechanical deformation of auste­
nitic and precipitation hardening steels at a temperature just 
below the recrystallization temperature to increase the 
yield strength and hardness by plastic deformation or pre­
cipitation hardening effects induced by plastic deformation, 
or both. 
hot-finished, n-the condition of a product that has been 
cooled directly after the last hot-working operation, without 
cold-working (except for straightening or flattening), and 
independent of the temperature at which hot-working was 
completed. 
D1scuss10N-The tolerances and surface finish of hot-finished prod­
uct can be different from those of cold-finished, cold-drawn, or 
cold-rolled product. 
hot quenching, n-an imprecise term used to cover a variety 
of quenching procedures in which the quenching medium is 
maintained at a prescribed temperature above 160 °F or 
70 °C. 
hot working, n-mechanical deformation of a metal at tem­
peratures above its recrystallization temperature. 
imperfection, n-a material discontinuity or irregularity that is 
detectable by inspection. 
inclusion shape control, n-the addition of elements during 
steel making in order to affect the inclusion morphology. 
induction hardening, n-in surface hardening, a process in 
which only the surface layer of a suitable steel object is 
heated by electrical induction to above Ac 3 or Ac 0 m, and then 
the object is quenched. 
induction hardening, n-in through hardening, a process in 
which a suitable steel object is heated by electrical induction 
to above Ac 3 or Ac 0 m throughout its section, and then the 
object is quenched. 
1383

=== Page 1446 ===

SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
induction heating, n-heating by electrical induction. 
inspection, n-the process of measuring, examining, testing, 
gaging, or otherwise comparing the unit of product with the 
applicable requirements. 
intermediate annealing, n-annealing wrought steel objects 
at one or more stages during manufacture prior to final 
thermal treatment. 
interrupted aging, n-aging at two or more temperatures, by 
steps, and cooling to room temperature after each step. 
interrupted quenching, n-quenching in which the object 
being quenched is removed from the quenching medium 
while the object is at a temperature substantially higher than 
that of the quenching medium. 
interstitial-free steel, n-a steel that has essentially all of its 
carbon and nitrogen chemically combined with stabilization 
elements rather than being present interstitially. 
D1scussION-The heat analysis limits (minimum or maximum, or 
both) that are permitted to be prescribed in interstitial-free steel 
. specifications are as given in the definition for carbon steel, except that 
the 0.050 % maximum limit for titanium does not apply. 
isothermal annealing, n-austenitizing a steel object and 
then cooling it to, and holding it at, a temperature at which 
austenite transforms to a ferrite-carbide aggregate. 
isothermal transformation, n-a change in phase at any 
constant temperature. 
killed steel, n-a steel deoxidized to such a level that essen­
tially no reaction occurred between carbon and oxygen 
during solidification. 
laser beam welding, n-a welding process that uses a laser 
beam as the heat source. 
lot, n-a definite quantity of product manufactured under 
conditions that are considered uniform. 
low-alloy steel, n-a steel, other than a carbon steel or an 
interstitial-free steel, that conforms to a specification that 
requires the minimum content for each specified alloying 
element to be lower than the applicable limit in the definition 
for alloy steel. 
Mp M 8 -See transformation temperature. 
manufacturer, n-the organization responsible for the conver­
sion of materials into products meeting the requirements of 
a product specification. 
maraging, n-a precipitation hardening treatment applied to a 
special group of alloy steels to precipitate one or more 
intermetallic compounds in a matrix of essentially carbon­
free martensite. 
martempering, n-quenching an austenitized steel object in a 
medium at a temperature in the upper part of, or slightly 
above, the martensite range, holding it in the medium until 
its temperature is substantially uniform throughout, and then 
cooling it in air through the martensite range. 
martensite range, n-the temperature interval between M 8 and 
~-
microalloyed steel, n-a low-alloy steel that conforms to a 
specification that requires the presence of one or more 
carbide-, nitride-, or carbonitride-forming elements, gener­
ally in individual concentrations less than 0.15 mass percent, 
to enhance strength. 
DiscussION-The most common microalloying elements are niobium 
(columbium), titanium, and vanadium. 
multiple heat, n-two or more molten primary heats, in 
whole or in part, combined in a common ladle or in a 
common non-oscillating mold. 
DiscussION-A multiple heat is identified by a single heat number 
representative of the multiple heat, or by the individual heat numbers 
of the primary heats contained in the multiple heat. The heat 
analysis of a multiple heat identified by a single heat number is the 
weighted average analysis of the individual primary heats contained in 
the multiple heat. Two or more molten primary heats sequentially 
strand cast (poured- into an oscillating mold) constitute a series of 
individual heats, not a multiple heat. 
natural aging, n-spontaneous aging of a super-saturated solid 
solution at room temperature. 
nickel alloy, n-a material that conforms to a specification that 
requires by mass percent more nickel than any other ele­
ment. 
DiscussION-ln castings, the nickel content requirement is not 
normally stated in the specification and is not normally determined by 
chemical analysis, but is taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean 
values permitted by the specification for all other elements having a 
specified range or a specified maximum. 
nitriding, n-introducing nitrogen into a solid steel object by 
holding it at a suitable temperature in contact with a 
nitrogenous environment. 
nonferrous material, n-metals and alloys that do not contain 
iron as the principal component. 
DiscussION-The iron content is not always stated in the specification 
and is not always determined by chemical analysis. The iron content 
may be taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, the mean value for 
iron, whether specified or calculated, is compared on an individual 
basis to the mean values permitted by the specification for each of the 
other elements having a specified range or a specified maximum. If an 
element other than iron is not specified, but is listed as remainder or 
balance, then, for conformance purposes, the mean value for iron is 
compared to the calculated value for that other element. 
normalizing, v-reheating a steel object to a temperature 
above the transformation range and then cooling it in air to 
a temperature substantially below the transformation range 
to achieve both grain refinement and improved homogeni­
zation. 
overaging, n-aging under conditions of time and temperature 
greater than those required to obtain maximum change in a 
certain prope1ty, so that the property is altered away from the 
maximum. 
overheating, n-heating a steel object to such a high tempera­
ture that excessive grain growth occurs. 
1384

=== Page 1447 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
D1scussroN-Unlike burning, it may be possible to restore the 
original properties/microstructure by further heat treatment or mechani­
cal working, or a combination thereof. 
patenting, n-in wire making, heat treatment of a medium­
carbon or high-carbon steel wire or wire rod that includes 
heating to a temperature above Ac 3 but below normal hot 
working temperatures, followed directly without hot work­
ing by controlled cooling to achieve a uniform microstruc­
ture suitable for cold working and typically characterized by 
pearlite having a fine interlamellar spacing. 
DiscussION-The method used for controlled cooling is often used to 
describe the type of patenting. Examples include but are not limited to, 
air patenting, salt patenting, fluidized bed patenting, and lead patenting. 
Furthermore, double lead patenting describes a patenting process in 
which molten lead is used not only for the controlled cooling, but also 
for the heating to a temperature above Ac 3 • 
plate-as-rolled, n-the quantity of plate product rolled at one 
time, either from a)l individual slab or directly from an ingot. 
Discuss10N-This term does not refer to the surface condition or the 
heat-treatment state of the material; a plate-as-rolled may be in the 
as-rolled condition, or may have received one or more surface 
treatments or heat treatments, or both. 
post-weld heat treatment, n-heating weldments immediately 
after welding, to provide tempering, stress relieving, or a 
controlled rate of cooling to prevent formation of a hard or 
brittle microstructure. 
precipitation hardening, n-hardening caused by the pre­
cipitation of a constituent from a supersaturated solid so~u­
tion. 
precipitation heat treatment, n-artificial aging in which a 
constituent precipitates from a supersaturated solid solution. 
preheating, n-heating before welding, a mechanical 
treatment, or some further thermal treatment. 
preheating, n-for tool steels, heating to an intermediate 
temperature immediately before final austenitizing. 
primary heat, n-the product of a single cycle of a batch 
melting process. 
DiscussroN-In the investment casting industry, the term master heat 
is used. 
process annealing, n-in the sheet and wire industries, heating 
a steel object to a temperature close to, but below, Ac 1 and 
then cooling it, in order to soften it for further cold working. 
product analysis, n-a chemical analysis of a specimen taken 
from the semi-finished product or the finished product. 
progressive aging, n-aging by increasing the temperature in 
steps, or continuously, during the aging cycle. 
quench aging, n-aging associated with quenching after 
solution heat treatment. 
quench hardening, n-hardening a steel object by austen­
itizing it, and then cooling it rapidly enough that some or all 
of the austenite transforms to martensite. 
DiscussioN-The austenitizing temperature is usually above Ac 3 for 
hypoeutectoid steels and between Ac 1 and Accm for hypereutectoid 
steels. 
quenching, n-rapid cooling in a fluid at a rate sufficient to 
preserve or produce desired material characteristics. 
DiscussmN-Where applicable, it is preferred that the following 
more specific terms be used: fog quenching, hot quenching, inter­
rupted quenching, selective quenching, spray quenching, and time 
quenching. Quenching is often used in solution heat treatment of 
austenitic steels to retain certain constituents in solution. Quenching is 
also used for ferritic steels to develop desired characteristics ( such as 
microstructure or toughness) in thicker sections that can otherwise only 
be achieved in thinner sections. Liquids and gasses are both fluids. 
recrystallization, n-the formation of a new grain structure 
through a nucleation and growth process. 
DIScussION-This is commonly produced by subjecting a steel 
object, which may be strained, to suitable conditions of time and 
temperature. 
recrystallization annealing, n-annealing a cold-worked 
steel object to produce a new grain structure without a 
change in phase. 
recrystallization temperature, n-the approximate minimum 
temperature at which recrystallization of a cold-worked steel 
object occurs within a specified time. 
remelted heat, n-the product of the remelting of a primary 
heat, in whole or in part. 
DrscussroN-In the investment casting industry, the term sub-heat is 
used. 
residual element, n-in steel, a specified or unspecified 
element, not intentionally added, originating in the raw 
materials, refractories, or surrounding atmospheres used in 
steel making. 
rimmed steel, n-a steel that contained sufficient oxygen to 
generate carbon monoxide at the boundary between the solid 
metal and the remaining molten metal during solidification, 
resulting in an outer layer low in carbon. 
secondary hardening, n-the hardening phenomenon that 
occurs during high-temperature tempering of certain steels 
containing one or more carbide-forming alloying elements. 
selective heating, n-intentionally heating only certain por­
tions of a steel object. 
selective quenching, n-quenching only certain portions of a 
steel object. 
semicontinuous-conveyance furnace, n-a heating device 
through which steel objects are intentionally moved in 
accordance with a predetermined start-stop-start pattern 
during the thermal processing cycle. 
semikilled steel, n-an incompletely deoxidized steel that 
contained sufficient oxygen to form enough entrapped car­
bon monoxide during solidification to offset solidification 
shrinkage. 
shell hardening, n-a surface hardening process in which a 
suitable steel object, when heated through and quench 
hardened, develops a martensitic layer or shell that closely 
follows the contour of the piece and surrounds a core of 
essentially pearlitic transformation product. 
1385

=== Page 1448 ===

SA-941 ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
DrscussION-This result is accomplished by a proper balance be­
tween section size, hardenability, and severity of quench. 
slack quenching, n-the incomplete hardening of a steel 
object due to quenching from the austenitizing temperature 
at a rate slower than the critical cooling rate for the 
particular steel composition, resulting in the formation of 
one or more transformation products in addition to marten­
site. 
snap temper, n-a precautionary interim stress-relieving treat­
ment applied to a high-hardenability steel immediately after 
quenching to prevent cracking because of delay in temper­
ing it at the prescribed higher temperature. 
soaking, n-prolonged holding at a selected temperature. 
solution heat treatment, n-heating a steel object to a suitable 
temperature, holding it at that temperature long enough to 
cause one or more constituents to enter into solid solution, 
and then cooling it rapidly enough to hold such constituents 
in solution. 
specified element, n-in steel, an element controlled to a 
specified minimum, maximum, or range, in accordance with 
the requirements of the applicable product specification. 
spheroidizing, n-heating and cooling a steel object to pro­
duce a spheroidal or globular form of carbide in its micro­
structure. 
D1scussION-Spheroidizing methods commonly used are the follow­
ing: (1) prolonged holding at a temperature just below Ae 1 ; (2) heating 
and cooling alternately between temperatures that are just above, and 
just below, Ae 1 ; (3) heating to a temperature above Ae 1 or Ae 3 and then 
cooling very slowly in the furnace or holding at a temperature just 
below Ae 1 ; (4) cooling, from the minimum temperature at which all 
carbide is dissolved, at a rate suitable to prevent the reformation of a 
carbide network, and then reheating in accordance with Method (1) or 
(2) above. (Applicable to hypereutectoid steels containing a carbide 
network.) 
spray quenching, n-quenching in a spray of liquid. 
stabilized stainless steel, n-a stainless steel that conforms to 
a specification that prescribes limits (minimum or range) for 
niobium (columbium), tantalum, titanium, or a combination 
thereof. 
D1scussION-Such limits are sometimes expressed as a function of 
the carbon and nitrogen contents. In an appropriately annealed 
condition, a stabilized stainless steel will resist sensitization to 
intergranular corrosion associated with the precipitation of chromium 
carbide at grain boundaries as a result of thermal exposure, such as 
annealing, stress relieving, welding, or high temperature service. 
Resistance to sensitization to intergranular corrosion is dependent upon 
the corrosivity of the environment. The condition of being stabilized 
with respect to sensitization is frequently demonstrated by passing one 
or more standard corrosion tests for sensitization. 
stabilizing treatment, n-any treatment intended to stabilize 
the microstructure or dimensions of a steel object. 
stainless steel, n-a steel that conforms to a specification that 
requires, by mass percent, a minimum chromium content of 
10.5 or more, and a maximum carbon content of less than 
1.20. 
steel, n-a material that conforms to a specification that 
requires, by mass percent, more iron than any other element 
and a maximum carbon content of generally less than 2. 
DIScuss10N-The iron content requirement is not normally stated in 
the specification and is not normally determined by chemical analysis, 
but is taken to be 100 % minus the sum of the mean values permitted 
by the specification for all other elements having a specified range or a 
specified maximum. For conformance purposes, this calculated value 
for iron is compared on an individual basis to the mean values 
permitted by the specification for each of the other elements having a 
specified range or a specified maximum. Some chromium-containing 
steels may contain more than 2 % carbon; however, 2 % carbon is 
generally considered to be the demarcation between steel and cast iron. 
strain aging, n-aging induced by cold working. 
strain hardening, n-an increase in hardness and strength of a 
metal caused by plastic deformation at temperatures below 
its recrystallization temperature. (Syn. work hardening) 
stress relieving, n-heating a steel object to a suitable 
temperature, holding it long enough to reduce residual 
stresses, and then cooling it slowly enough to minimize the 
development of new residual stresses. 
subcritical annealing, n-annealing at a temperature slightly 
below Ac 1 . 
surface hardening, n-a generic term covering any of several 
processes that, by quench hardening only, produce in a 
steel object a surface layer that is harder or more wear 
resistant than the core. 
DIScussION-There is no significant alteration of the chemical 
composition of the surface layer. Where applicable, it is preferred that 
the following more specific terms be used: induction hardening, flame 
hardening, and shell hardening. 
temper brittleness, n-brittleness that results when certain 
steels are held within, or are cooled slowly through, a certain 
range of temperature below the transformation range. 
tempering, n-reheating a quench hardened or normalized 
steel object to a temperature below Ac 1 , and then cooling it 
at any desired rate. 
test record, n-a document or electronic record that contains 
the observations and derived data obtained by applying a 
given test method. 
test report, n-a document that presents the applicable quali­
tative or quantitative results obtained by applying one or 
more given test methods. 
DIScussION-A single document, containing test report information 
and certificate of compliance information, may be used. 
Thermal-Mechanical Control Process (TMCP), n-a rolling 
process that produces a fine-grained ferritic steel by a 
particular combination of controls on the manufacturing 
process, from slab reheating to post-rolling cooling, thereby 
achieving enhanced mechanical properties. 
D1scuss10N-(TMCP) requires appropriate selection of chemical 
composition and accurate control of steel temperature and rolling 
reduction. 
thermochemical treatment, n-a heat treatment carried out 
in a medium suitably chosen to produce a change in the 
chemical composition of the steel object by exchange with 
the medium. 
1386

=== Page 1449 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-941 
time quenching, n-interrupted quenching in which the 
duration of holding in the quenching medium is controlled. 
transformation ranges, n-those ranges of temperature within 
which austenite forms during heating and transforms during 
cooling. 
DrscussroN-The two ranges are distinct, sometimes overlapping but 
never coinciding. The limiting temperatures of the ranges are depen­
dent upon the steel composition and the rate of change of temperature, 
particularly during cooling. 
transformation temperature, n-the temperature at which a 
change in phase occurs, with the limiting temperatures of the 
transformation ranges designated using the following sym­
bols: 
Acc 01 -the temperature at which the solution of cementite 
in austenite is completed during heating. 
Ac 1 -the temperature at which austenite begins to form 
during heating. 
Ac 3 -the temperature at which transformation of ferrite to 
austenite is completed dming heating. 
Ac 4 -the temperature at which austenite transforms to 
delta ferrite during heating. 
Ae 1 , Ae 3 , Aecm• Ae 4 -the temperatures of phase change at 
equilibrium. 
Arcn 1 -the temperature at which precipitation of cementite 
starts during cooling. 
Ar 1 -the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to ferrite or to ferrite plus cementite is completed during 
cooling. 
Ar 3 -the temperature at which austenite begins to trans­
form to ferrite during cooling. 
Ar 4 -the temperature at which delta ferrite transforms to 
austenite during cooling. 
Mr-the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to martensite is substantially completed during cooling. 
M 8 -the temperature at which transformation of austenite 
to martensite starts during cooling. 
DrscussroN-All of the above changes, except the formation of 
martensite, occur at lower temperatures dming cooling than during 
heating, and are dependent upon the rate of change of temperature. 
unspecified element, n-in steel, an element not controlled to 
a specified minimum, maximum, or range, in accordance 
with the requirements of the applicable product specifica­
tion. 
wrought product, n-item of steel which has been subject to 
deformation by rolling, drawing, forging, or some other 
method, for example, a bar, plate, strip, tube, or wire. 
1387 
DrscussroN-The extent of deformation needed to transform an 
as-cast material to one that exhibits the microstructure and properties 
expected for wrought products is impractical to define because it may 
vary among different deformation practices and product application.