=== Page 231 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-134/SA-134M 
SPECIFICATION FOR PIPE, STEEL, ELECTRIC-FUSION 
(ARC)-WELDED (SIZES NPS 16 AND OVER) 
SA-134/SA-134M cO 
INTERNATIONAL 
Standards Worldwide 
(Identical with ASTM Specification A134/A134M-19. For products ordered to Section III, Division 1, Supplementary 
Requirement Sl is mandatory.) 
179

=== Page 232 ===

SA-134/SA-134M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
Specification for 
Pipe, Steel, Electric-Fusion (Arc)-Welded (Sizes NPS 16 and 
Over) 
1. Scope 
1.1 This specification covers electric-fusion (arc)-welded 
straight seam or spiral seam steel pipe NPS 16 and over in 
diameter (inside or outside as specified by purchaser), with 
wall thicknesses up to ¾ in. [19 mm], inclusive. Pipe having 
other dimensions may be furnished provided such pipe com­
plies with all other requirements of this specification. The pipe 
is available in various grades based on the ASTM specification 
ordered (Section 4). 
Note 1-Acceptability for many services may be controlled by codes 
or standards such as those published by the American National Standards 
Institute and American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
Note 2-For testing methods not specifically covered in this 
specification, reference can be made to Test Methods and Definitions 
A370, with particular reference to Annex A2 on Steel Tubular Products. 
Note 3-A comprehensive listing of standardized pipe dimensions is 
contained in ANSI B 36.10. 
1.2 The values stated in either SI units or inch-pound units 
are to be regarded separately as standard. Within the text, the 
SI units are shown in brackets. The values stated in each 
system may not be exact equivalents; therefore, each system 
shall be used independently of the other. Combining values 
from the two systems may result in non-conformance with the 
standard. The inch-pound units shall apply unless the "M" 
designation of this specification is specified in the order. In this 
specification hard or rationalized conversions apply to 
diameter, lengths, and tensile properties. Soft conversion ap­
plies to other SI measurements. 
Note 4-The dimensionless designator NPS (nominal pipe size) has 
been substituted in this standard for such traditional terms as "nominal 
diameter," "size," and "nominal size." 
1.3 The following caveat pertains specifically to Section 5 
of this specification. This standard does not purport to address 
all of the safety concerns, if any, associated with its use. It is 
the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish 
180 
appropriate safety, health, and environmental practices and 
determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to 
use. 
l.4 This international standard was developed in accor­
dance with internationally recognized principles on standard­
ization established in the Decision on Principles for the 
Development of International Standards, Guides and Recom­
mendations issued by the World Trade Organization Technical 
Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee. 
2. Referenced Documents 
2.1 ASTM Standards: 
A36/A36M Specification for Carbon Structural Steel 
A283/ A283M Specification for Low and Intermediate Ten­
sile Strength Carbon Steel Plates 
A285/ A285M Specification for Pressure Vessel Plates, Car­
bon Steel, Low- and Intermediate-Tensile Strength 
A370 Test Methods and Definitions for Mechanical Testing 
of Steel Products 
A941 Terminology Relating to Steel, Stainless Steel, Related 
Alloys, and Ferroalloys 
A1011/A1011M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Hot-Rolled, Carbon, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
A1018/A1018M Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, 
Heavy-Thickness Coils, Hot-Rolled, Carbon, 
Commercial, Drawing, Structural, High-Strength Low­
Alloy, High-Strength Low-Alloy with Improved 
Formability, and Ultra-High Strength 
Al058 Test Methods for Mechanical Testing of Steel 
Products-Metric 
2.2 ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code: 
Section Ill 
Section IX

=== Page 233 ===

\. . --..___, 
ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 SA-134/SA-134M 
2.3 American National Standards Institute Standard: 
B 16.25 Buttwelding Ends 
B 36.10 Welded and Seamless Wrought Steel Pipe 
3. Ordering Information 
3.1 Orders for electric-fusion arc-welded pipe under this 
specification shall contain information concerning as many of 
the following items as are required, to describe the desired pipe 
adequately: 
3.1.1 Quantity (feet, metres, or number of lengths), 
3.1.2 Name of material (electric-fusion (arc)-welded pipe), 
3.1.3 ASTM Specification A134 or A134M and year date, 
3.1.4 Grade (if applicable) of steel from which the pipe shall 
be made (Section 4), 
3.1.5 Size (inside or outside diameter and nominal wall 
thickness), and 
3.1.6 Length (specified or random). 
3.2 The purchaser shall have the option to order additional 
requirements, including, but not limited to the following: 
3.2.1 Specific straightness requirements (see 12.3), 
3.2.2 End finish (Section 14), 
3.2.3 Hydrostatic Test Pressure (Section 11), 
3.2.4 Protective coating (Section 20), 
3.2.5 End use of pipe, and 
3.2.6 Other special or supplementary requirements, if any. 
4. Material 
4.1 The steel from which the pipe is made shall conform to 
Specifications A36/A36M, A283/A283M, A285/A285M, 
AlOll/AlOllM, A1018/A1018M, or to other ASTM specifi­
cations for equally suitable weldable material, as specified. For 
purposes of marking and certification, when required, the pipe 
grade of material shall be established by the A xxx plate 
specification designation and plate grade, when applicable. 
5. Manufacture 
5.1 The longitudinal edges of the steel shall be shaped to 
give the most satisfactory results by the particular welding 
process employed. The steel shall then be properly formed and 
may be tacked preparatory to welding. The weld shall be made 
by automatic means (except tack welds) and shall be of 
reasonably uniform width and height for the entire length of the 
pipe. By agreement between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer, manual welding by qualified procedure and 
welders may be used as an equal alternate under this specifi­
cation. 
5.2 All longitudinal seams, spiral seams, and shop girth 
seams shall be butt-welded. 
6. Number of Production Weld Tests 
6.1 One weld test specimen specified in Section 8 shall be 
made from each lot of 3000 ft [900 m] of pipe or fraction 
thereof of each size and wall thickness. 
6.2 If any test specimen shows defective machining or 
develops flaws not associated with the welding, it may be 
discarded and another specimen substituted. 
6.3 Each length of pipe shall be subjected to the hydrostatic 
test specified in Section 11, unless otherwise specified in 11.3. 
7. Retests 
7.1 If any specimen tested in accordance with Section 10 
fails to meet the requirements, retests of two additional 
specimens from the same lot of pipe shall be made, each of 
which shall meet the requirements specified. If any of the 
retests fail to conform to the requirements, test specimens may 
be taken from each untested pipe length at the manufacturer's 
option. Each specimen shall meet the requirements specified, 
or that pipe shall be rejected. 
8. Test Specimens of Production Welds 
8.1 The weld-test specimens for the reduced-section tension 
test shall be taken perpendicularly across the weld and from the 
end of the pipe or, alternatively, from flat test pieces of material 
conforming to the requirements in the specifications used in the 
manufacture of the pipe. The alternative weld-test specimens 
shall be welded with the same procedure and by the same 
operator and equipment, and in sequence with the welding of 
the longitudinal joints in the pipe. The test pieces shall have the 
weld approximately in the middle of the specimen. The 
specimens shall be straightened cold, and shall be tested at 
room temperature. 
8.2 Reduced-section tension-test specimens shall be pre­
pared in accordance with Fig. A2.3 of Test Methods and 
Definitions A370, Annex A2 Steel Tubular Products. 
9. Qualification of Welding Procedure 
9.1 The welding procedure shall be qualified in accordance 
with the American Welding Society Standard Qualification 
Procedure 5 or ASME Section IX of the Boiler and Pressure 
Vessel Code as agreed to between the manufacturer and the 
purchaser using the tests and test values specified in 9.2 and 
9.3. Thicknesses less than 3/s in. [10 mm] shall be qualified for 
each wall thickness of pipe manufactured. Thicknesses 3/s to ¾ • 
in. [10 mm to 19 mm], inclusive, shall be qualified in 3/s-in. 
[10-mm] thickness. 
181 
9.2 Two reduced-section tension specimens (transverse 
weld) made in accordance with Fig. A2.3 of Test Methods and 
Definitions A370, with the weld reinforcement removed, shall 
show a tensile strength not less than 100 % of the minimum 
specified tensile strength of the base material used. 
9.3 Two face-bend test specimens shall be prepared in 
accordance with Section A2.5.l.7 of Test Methods and Defi­
nitions A370 and shall withstand being bent 180° in a jig 
substantially in accordance with Fig. A2.15.3 of Test Methods 
and Definitions A370. The bend test shall be acceptable if no 
cracks·or other defects exceeding 1/s in. [3 mm] in any direction 
be present in the weld metal or between the weld and the pipe

=== Page 234 ===

SA-134/SA-134M ASME BPVC.II.A-2025 
metal after bending. Cracks that originate along the edges of 
the specimens during testing and that are less than ¼ in. [6 
mm] in any direction, shall not be considered. 
10. Tensile Properties of Production Welds 
10.1 Reduced-section tension test specimens required in 
Section 8, taken perpendicularly across the weld with the weld 
reinforcement removed, shall show a tensile strength not less 
than 95 % of the specified minimum strength of the steel. At 
the manufacturer's option, the test may be made without 
removing the weld reinforcement, in which case the tensile 
strength shall be not less than the specified minimum tensile 
strength for the grade of steel used. 
11. Hydrostatic.Test (Note 5) 
11.1 Each length of pipe shall be tested by the manufacturer 
to a hydrostatic pressure that will produce in the pipe wall a 
stress of 60 % of the specified minimum yield point of the steel 
used at room temperature. The pressure shall be determined by 
the following equation: 
P = 2St/D 
where: 
P = minimum hydrostatic test pressure, psi (Note 6) (not to 
exceed 2800 psi [19 MPa]), 
S = 0.60 times the minimum specified yield point of the 
steel used, psi [MPa], 
t = specified wall thickness, in. [mm], and 
D = specified outside diameter, in. [mm]. 
NoTE 5-A hydrostatic sizing operation is not to be considered a 
hydrostatic test or a substitute for it. 
NoTE 6-When the diameter and wall thickness of pipe are such that the 
capacity limits of testing equipment are exceeded by these requirements, 
the test pressures may be reduced by agreement between the purchaser and 
the manufacturer. 
11.2 Test pressure shall be held for not less than 5 s, or for 
a longer time as agreed upon between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer. 
NoTE 7-When agreed upon between the purchaser and the manufac­
turer and so stated on the order, pipe may be tested to one and one half 
times the specified working pressure, except that the maximum test 
pressure shall not exceed 2800 psi [19 MPa] nor shall the maximum fiber 
stress exceed 85 % of specified minimum yield point of steel or to a fiber 
stress that does not exceed 85 % of the specified minimum yield point of 
the steel or 2800-psi [19-MPa] test pressure. 
11.3 When specified in the order, pipe may be furnished 
without hydrostatic testing and each length so furnished shall 
include the mandatory marking of the letters "NH." 
Additionally, the certification, when required, shall state "Not 
Hydrostatically Tested" and the specification number and 
material grade, as shown on the certification, shall be followed 
by the letters "NH." 
12. Permissible Variations in Weights and Dimensions 
12.1 Thickness and Weight-The wall thickness and weight 
for welded pipe under this specification shall be governed by 
the requirements of the specifications to which the steel was 
ordered. 
182 
12.2 Circumference-The outside circumference of the pipe 
shall not vary more than ±0.5 % from the nominal outside 
circumference based upon the diameter specified, except that 
the circumference at ends shall be sized, if necessary, to meet 
the requirements of Section 14. 
12.3 Straightness-Finished pipe shall be commercially 
straight. When specific straightness requirements are desired, 
the order should so state, and the tolerances shall be a matter of 
agreement between the purchaser and the manufacturer. 
12.4 Ovality-Out-of-roundness-The difference between 
major and minor outside diameter shall not exceed 1 %. Closer 
tolerances may be established by agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. Where the D/I' ( outside 
diameter/wall thickness) is over 120, internal bracing should be 
utilized to achieve sizing of ends and ovality shall be by 
agreement between the manufacturer and purchaser. 
13. Lengths 
13.1 Pipe lengths shall be supplied in accordance with the 
following regular practice: 
13.1.1 The lengths shall be as specified on the order with a 
tolerance of±½ in. [13 mm], except that the shorter lengths 
from which test coupons have been cut may also be shipped. 
13.1.2 When random lengths are specified, pipe shall be 
furnished in lengths having a minimum average of 29 ft [9 m] 
with a minimum length of 20 ft [6 m], but not more than 5 % 
may be under 25 ft [8 m]. 
13.2 Pipe lengths containing circumferentially welded joints 
(Note 8) shall be permitted by agreement between the manu­
facturer and the purchaser. Tests of these welded joints shall be 
made in accordance with the procedure tests specified in 
Section 9 and the production weld tests specified in Section 10. 
The number of production weld tests shall be one per each lot 
of 100 joints or fraction thereof, but not less than one for each 
welder or welding operator. 
NoTE 8-Joints are defined for the purpose of this specification as a 
circumferential welded seam lying in one plane, used to join lengths of 
straight pipe. 
14. Ends 
14.1 Pipe shall be furnished with a plain right-angle cut or 
with bevel ends as specified. All burrs at the ends of pipe shall 
be removed. 
14.1.1 Unless otherwise specified, pipe with beveled ends 
shall meet the requirements of ANSI B 16.25. 
14.2 Unless otherwise specified, the outside circumference 
of pipe ends for a distance of not less than 4 in. [100 mm] shall 
not vary more than ± 60 % of the nominal wall thickness of the 
pipe from the nominal outside circumference based on the 
diameter specified, except that the tolerance shall not be less 
than ± 3/16 in. [5 mm]. 
14.3 By agreement between the manufacturer and the pur­
chaser the ends of the pipe may be sized within agreed-upon 
tolerances if necessary to meet the requirements of special 
installations.

=== Page 235 ===

ASME BPVC.II.A--2025 SA-134/SA-134M 
15. Finish 
15.1 Repair by Welding-The welding of injurious defects 
in the pipe wall, provided their depth does not exceed one third 
the specified wall thickness, will be permitted. Defects in the 
welds, such as sweats or leaks, shall be repaired or the piece 
rejected at the option of the manufacturer. Repairs of this 
nature shall be made by completely removing the defect, 
cleaning the cavity, and then welding. 
15.2 All repaired pipe shall be tested hydrostatically in 
accordance with Section 11, unless otherwise specified in 11.3. 
16. Inspection 
16.1 The inspector representing the purchaser shall have 
entry at all times while work on the contract of the purchaser 
is being performed, to all parts of the manufacturer's works 
that concern the manufacture of the material ordered. The 
manufacturer shall afford the inspector all reasonable facilities 
to satisfy him that the material is being furnished in accordance 
with this specification. All tests and inspection shall be made at 
the place of manufacture prior to shipment and unless other­
wise specified, shall be so conducted as not to interfere 
unnecessarily with the operation of the works. If agreed upon, 
the manufacturer shall notify the purchaser in time so that he 
may have his inspector present to witness any part of the 
manufacture or tests that may be desired. The certification shall 
include reference to this specification and the pipe grade 
(ASTM plate specification designation and plate grade, when 
applicable). 
16.2 Certification-Upon request of the purchaser in the 
contract or order, a manufacturer's certification that the mate­
rial was manufactured and tested in accordance with this 
specification together with a report of the chemical and tensile 
tests shall be furnished. When hydrostatic test is omitted, the 
certificate shall include the letters "NH." 
17. Rejection 
17.1 Each length of pipe received from the manufacturer 
may be inspected by the purchaser and, if it does not meet the 
requirements of this specification based on the inspection and 
test method as outlined in the specification, the length may be 
rejected, and the manufacturer shall be notified. Disposition of 
rejected pipe shall be a matter of agreement between the 
manufacturer and the purchaser. 
17 .2 Pipe found in fabrication or in installation to be 
unsuitable for the intended use, under the scope and require­
ments of this specification, may be set aside and the manufac­
turer notified. Such pipe shall be subject to mutual investiga­
tion as to the nature and severity of the deficiency and the 
forming or installation, or both, conditions involved. Disposi­
tion shall be a matter of agreement between the purchaser and 
the manufacturer. 
18. Certification 
18.1 Upon request of the purchaser in the contract or order, 
a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufac­
tured and tested in accordance with this specification, including 
year date, together with a report of the chemical and tensile 
tests shall be furnished. The pipe grade shall be identified by 
the plate specification designation (year date not required) and 
the plate grade (where applicable). 
19. Product Marking 
19.1 Each section of pipe shall be marked with the manu­
facturer's distinguishing marking, this specification number, 
and the pipe grade. The marking need not include the year date 
of the pipe or plate specification. 
19.2 Bar Coding-In addition to the requirements in 19.1, 
bar coding is acceptable as a supplemental identification 
method. The purchaser may specify in the order a specific bar 
coding system to be used. 
20. Protective Coating 
20.1 If agreed upon between the purchaser and the 
manufacturer, the pipe shall be given a protective coating of the 
kind and in the manner specified by the purchaser. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS 
One or more of the following supplementary requirements shall be applied only when specified by 
the purchaser in the inquiry, contract, or order. Details of these supplementary requirements shall be 
agreed upon in writing by the manufacturer and purchaser. Supplementary requirements shall in no 
way negate any requirement of the specification itself. 
Sl. ASME Section III Construction 
S 1.1 Products furnished under this specification that are 
intended for application under the rules of the ASME Boiler 
and Pressure Vessel Code Section III, Class 3 Piping, shall be 
manufactured by holders of the appropriate ASME Certificate 
of Authorization and Certification Mark. The product is subject 
to all applicable requirements of Section III, Class 3 Piping, 
183 
including welding, heat treatment, nondestructive examination, 
authorized inspection at the point of manufacture, and appli­
cation of the Certification Mark. 
S 1.2 The applicable ASME Partial Data Report Form, 
signed by an Authorized Nuclear Inspector, and a material test 
report shall be furnished for each lot of pipe.