*
(25) FOREWORD
In 1911, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers established the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Committee to for-
mulate standard rules for the construction of steam boilers and other pressure vessels. In 2009, the Boiler and Pressure
Vessel Committee was superseded by the following committees:
(a) Committee on Power Boilers (I)
(b) Committee on Materials (II)
(c) Committee on Construction of Nuclear Facility Components (III) —
(d) Committee on Heating Boilers (IV)
(e) Committee on Nondestructive Examination (V)
(f) Committee on Pressure Vessels (VIII)
(g) Committee on Welding, Brazing, and Fusing (IX)
(h) Committee on Fiber-Reinforced Plastic Pressure Vessels (X)
() Committee on Nuclear Inservice Inspection (XI)
G) Committee on Transport Tanks (XII)
(k) Committee on Overpressure Protection (XIII)
(D) Technical Oversight Management Committee (TOMC)
Where reference is made to “the Committee” in this Foreword, each of these committees is included individually and
collectively.
The Committee’s function is to establish rules of safety relating to pressure integrity. The rules govern the
construction” of boilers, pressure vessels, transport tanks, and nuclear components, and the inservice inspection of nu-
clear components and transport tanks. For nuclear items other than pressure-retaining components, the Committee also :
establishes rules of safety related to structural integrity. The Committee also interprets these rules when questions arise
regarding their intent. The technical consistency of the Sections of the Code and coordination of standards development
activities of the Committees is supported and guided by the Technical Oversight Management Committee. The Code does
not address other safety issues relating to the construction of boilers, pressure vessels, transport tanks, or nuclear com-
ponents, or the inservice inspection of nuclear components or transport tanks. Users of the Code should refer to the
pertinent codes, standards, laws, regulations, or other relevant documents for safety issues other than those relating
to pressure integrity and, for nuclear items other than pressure-retaining components, structural integrity. Except for
Sections XI and XII, and with a few other exceptions, the rules do not, of practical necessity, reflect the likelihood and
consequences of deterioration in service related to specific service fluids or external operating environments. In formu-
lating the rules, the Committee considers the needs of users, manufacturers, and inspectors of components addressed by
the Code. The objective of the rules is to afford reasonably certain protection of life and property, and to provide a mar-
gin for deterioration in service to give a reasonably long, safe period of usefulness, Advancements in design and materi-
als and evidence of experience have been recognized.
The Code contains mandatory requirements, specific prohibitions, and nonmandatory guidance for construction ac- —
tivities and inservice inspection and testing activities. The Code does not address all aspects of these activities and those
aspects that are not specifically addressed should not be considered prohibited. The Code is not a handbook and cannot
replace education, experience, and the use of engineering judgment. The phrase engineering judgment refers to technical |
judgments made by knowledgeable engineers experienced in the application of the Code. Engineering judgments must '
be consistent with Code philosophy, and such judgments must never be used to overrule mandatory requirements or
specific prohibitions of the Code.
The Committee recognizes that tools and techniques used for design and analysis change as technology progresses
and expects engineers to use good judgment in the application of these tools. The designer is responsible for complying
with Code rules and demonstrating compliance with Code equations when such equations are mandatory. The Code
“The information contained in this Foreword is not part of this American National Standard (ANS) and has not been processed in accordance
with ANSI's requirements for an ANS. Therefore, this Foreword may contain material that has not been subjected to public review or a con-
sensus process. In addition, it does not contain requirements necessary for conformance to the Code.
“ Construction, as used in this Foreword, is an all-inclusive term comprising materials, design, fabrication, examination, inspection, testing, F, |
certification, and overpressure protection. —
xii
