Date of Issuance: July 1, 2025 —

This international code or standard was developed under procedures accredited as meeting the criteria for
American National Standards and it is an American National Standard. The standards committee that approved
the code or standard was balanced to ensure that individuals from competent and concerned interests had an op-
portunity to participate. The proposed code or standard was made available for public review and comment,
which provided an opportunity for additional public input from industry, academia, regulatory agencies, and
the public-at-large.

ASME does not “approve,” “certify,” “rate,” or “endorse” any item, construction, proprietary device, or activity.
ASME does not take any position with respect to the validity of any patent rights asserted in connection with
any items mentioned in this document, and does not undertake to insure anyone utilizing a standard against lia- :
bility for infringement of any applicable letters patent, nor does ASME assume any such liability. Users of a code or
standard are expressly advised that determination of the validity of any such patent rights, and the risk of infrin-
gement of such rights, is entirely their own responsibility.

Participation by federal agency representatives or persons affiliated with industry is not to be interpreted as -
government or industry endorsement of this code or standard.

ASME accepts responsibility for only those interpretations of this document issued in accordance with the es-
tablished ASME procedures and policies, which precludes the issuance of interpretations by individuals.

The endnotes and preamble in this document (if any) are part of this American National Standard.

le és} ASME Collective Membership Mark
(NZ
ASME Single Certification Mark
The ASTM standards included within this ASME publication have been reproduced
through a license agreement with ASTM International.

All rights reserved. “ASME” and the above ASME symbols are registered trademarks of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers. No
part of this document may be copied, modified, distributed, published, displayed, or otherwise reproduced in any form or by any means, i
electronic, digital, or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission of ASME. No works derived from |
this document or any content therein may be created without the express written permission of ASME. Using this document or any content
therein to train, create, or improve any artificial intelligence and/or machine learning platform, system, application, model, or algorithm is
strictly prohibited. _

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 56-3934 i
Adopted by the Council of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1914; latest edition 2025.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990
Copyright © 2025 by
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
All rights reserved
Printed in U.S.A.
NL”
