STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE USE OF THE ASME SINGLE
CERTIFICATION MARK AND CODE AUTHORIZATION IN
ADVERTISING

ASME has established procedures to authorize qualified organizations to perform various activities in accordance \
with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. It is the aim of the Society to provide recognition
of organizations so authorized. An organization holding authorization to perform various activities in accordance with
the requirements of the Code may state this capability in its advertising literature.

Organizations that are authorized to use the ASME Single Certification Mark for marking items or constructions that
have been constructed and inspected in compliance with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code are issued Certifi-
cates of Authorization. It is the aim of the Society to maintain the standing of the ASME Single Certification Mark for the
benefit of the users, the enforcement jurisdictions, and the holders of the ASME Single Certification Mark who comply
with all requirements.

Based on these objectives, the following policy has been established on the usage in advertising of facsimiles of the
ASME Single Certification Mark, Certificates of Authorization, and reference to Code construction. The American Society
of Mechanical Engineers does not “approve,” “certify,” “rate,’ or “endorse” any item, construction, or activity and there
shall be no statements or implications that might so indicate. An organization holding the ASME Single Certification Mark
and/or a Certificate of Authorization may state in advertising literature that items, constructions, or activities “are built
(produced or performed) or activities conducted in accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure
Vessel Code,” or “meet the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.’ An ASME corporate logo shall not
be used by any organization other than ASME.

The ASME Single Certification Mark shall be used only for stamping and nameplates as specifically provided in the
Code. However, facsimiles may be used for the purpose of fostering the use of such construction. Such usage may be
by an association or a society, or by a holder of the ASME Single Certification Mark who may also use the facsimile
in advertising to show that clearly specified items will carry the ASME Single Certification Mark.

STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE USE OF ASME MARKING TO

IDENTIFY MANUFACTURED ITEMS

The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code provides rules for the construction of boilers, pressure vessels, and nuclear
components. This includes requirements for materials, design, fabrication, examination, inspection, and stamping. Items _
constructed in accordance with all of the applicable rules of the Code are identified with the ASME Single Certification
Mark described in the governing Section of the Code.

Markings such as “ASME,” “ASME Standard,” or any other marking including “ASME” or the ASME Single Certification -
Mark shall not be used on any item that is not constructed in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of the
Code.

Items shall not be described on ASME Data Report Forms nor on similar forms referring to ASME that tend to imply
that all Code requirements have been met when, in fact, they have not been. Data Report Forms covering items not fully
complying with ASME requirements should not refer to ASME or they should clearly identify all exceptions to the ASME
requirements.

Sy
xiv
